Read full articleSimply Wall St.With 77% institutional ownership, Lazard, Inc. (NYSE:LAZ) is a favorite amongst the big gunseditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Thu, Jun 13, 2024, 6:06 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsInstitutions' substantial holdings in Lazard implies that they have significant influence over the company's share priceThe top 10 shareholders own 50% of the company Analyst forecasts along with ownership data serve to give a strong idea about prospects for a businessEvery investor in Lazard, Inc. (NYSE:LAZ) should be aware of the most powerful shareholder groups. With 77% stake, institutions possess the maximum shares in the company. In other words, the group stands to gain the most (or lose the most) from their investment into the company.Given the vast amount of money and research capacities at their disposal, institutional ownership tends to carry a lot of weight, especially with individual investors. Hence, having a considerable amount of institutional money invested in a company is often regarded as a desirable trait.Let's take a closer look to see what the different types of shareholders can tell us about Lazard. View our latest analysis for Lazard ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Lazard?Many institutions measure their performance against an index that approximates the local market. So they usually pay more attention to companies that are included in major indices.We can see that Lazard does have institutional investors; and they hold a good portion of the company's stock. This suggests some credibility amongst professional investors. But we can't rely on that fact alone since institutions make bad investments sometimes, just like everyone does. If multiple institutions change their view on a stock at the same time, you could see the share price drop fast. It's therefore worth looking at Lazard's earnings history below. Of course, the future is what really matters.earnings-and-revenue-growthInvestors should note that institutions actually own more than half the company, so they can collectively wield significant power. We note that hedge funds don't have a meaningful investment in Lazard. The company's largest shareholder is The Vanguard Group, Inc., with ownership of 12%. In comparison, the second and third largest shareholders hold about 11% and 7.8% of the stock.We did some more digging and found that 10 of the top shareholders account for roughly 50% of the register, implying that along with larger shareholders, there are a few smaller shareholders, thereby balancing out each others interests somewhat.While it makes sense to study institutional ownership data for a company, it also makes sense to study analyst sentiments to know which way the wind is blowing. Quite a few analysts cover the stock, so you could look into forecast growth quite easily.Story continuesInsider Ownership Of LazardThe definition of an insider can differ slightly between different countries, but members of the board of directors always count. The company management answer to the board and the latter should represent the interests of shareholders. Notably, sometimes top-level managers are on the board themselves.Insider ownership is positive when it signals leadership are thinking like the true owners of the company. However, high insider ownership can also give immense power to a small group within the company. This can be negative in some circumstances.We can see that insiders own shares in Lazard, Inc.. This is a big company, so it is good to see this level of alignment. Insiders own US$120m worth of shares (at current prices). It is good to see this level of investment by insiders. You can check here to see if those insiders have been buying recently. General Public OwnershipThe general public-- including retail investors -- own 19% stake in the company, and hence can't easily be ignored. This size of ownership, while considerable, may not be enough to change company policy if the decision is not in sync with other large shareholders.Next Steps:While it is well worth considering the different groups that own a company, there are other factors that are even more important. To that end, you should be aware of the   3 warning signs  we've spotted with Lazard .If you would prefer discover what analysts are predicting in terms of future growth, do not miss this free report on analyst forecasts.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.View comments