




                                    News
                                  

Chevron icon
It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options.

 
                                    stocks
                                  
 
Stock market today: Stocks edge higher to close at a record after upbeat producer inflation data










Max Adams and
                                      
                                        
Filip De Mott 

                                  2024-06-13T20:08:55Z
                                 



Max Adams|Filip De Mott




Share icon
An curved arrow pointing right.

 Share





Facebook Icon
The letter F.


Facebook
 



Email icon
An envelope. It indicates the ability to send an email.


Email
 



Twitter icon
A stylized bird with an open mouth, tweeting.


Twitter
 



Link icon
An image of a chain link. It symobilizes a website link url.


Copy Link
 
 



Save Article Icon
A bookmark

 Save





 
                                      Read in app
                                  










                                  Angela Weiss/AFP via Getty Images
                                







US stocks ended mostly higher on Thursday as investors were encouraged by new inflation data. Data showed wholesale inflation rose less than expected in May, a day after CPI showed consumer inflation also slowed. Tesla shares jumped ahead of the results of Elon Musk's pay package vote, while Broadcom soared after earnings. 










 


                                    Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview








 















Thanks for signing up!


                              Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go.
                              
                                download the app
                               





Email address





                                      Sign up
                                     



                                  By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. You can opt-out at any time by visiting our Preferences page or by clicking "unsubscribe" at the bottom of the email.
                              








 


Advertisement

US stocks edged up to another record close on Thursday as investors took in another inflation reading that showed prices are cooling, bolstering the case for rate cuts by the Federal Reserve.The S&P 500 hit a fourth-straight all-time high at the end of Thursday's session.Traders took in another batch of encouraging economic data, with the Bureau of Labor Statistics reporting that producer price inflation rose less than expected in May, dropping 0.2% against estimates for an increase of 0.1%. It marks the largest monthly decrease since October. Producer prices were up 2.2% on an annual basis.On the labor front, jobless claims rose, indicating some loosening of the job market as more Americans apply for unemployment benefits. The number rose to its highest level in 10 months last week, with 242,000 people applying for unemployment.
Advertisement

Those numbers, along with Wednesday's consumer price index reading for May, paint a picture of a cooling economy and make it more likely the Fed could start cutting interest rates in the coming months."In short, the latest data in hand nudge the door a little wider open for the Fed to begin making an interest rate cut later this year," Comerica Bank chief economist Bill Adams said Thursday, adding that the firm sees the first cut in September followed by another at the December policy meeting.Tesla shares jumped in Thursday's session as Elon Musk said his $56 billion pay package, which shareholders are voting on, was set to be approved. Earlier in the day, it was reported that investment giants BlackRock and Vanguard, which own about 13% of Tesla stock, would both vote in favor of the pay deal.Meanwhile, Broadcom stock rocketed higher on upbeat earnings and the announcement of a 10-for-1 stock split. Bank of America analysts said in a note that the company could be the next to enter the trillion-dollar market cap club, an elite group that includes fellow chip maker Nvidia.
Advertisement

Here's where US indexes stood at the 4:00 p.m. closing bell on Thursday:S&P 500: 5,433.74, up 0.23%Dow Jones Industrial Average: 38,647.10, down 0.17% (-65.11 points)Nasdaq composite: 17,667.56, up 0.34%Here's what else is going on today:Russia shut down dollar and euro trading after new US sanctions, marking the end of a market that's been active since the Cold War.The US needs 2 million new homes to revive the dream of homeownership for many Americans."The Big Short" investor Steve Eisman threw cold water on recession calls, arguing that the US economy is the most dynamic it's ever been.Short seller Jim Chanos warned of a 2021-style market mania as speculative investments like meme stocks make a comeback.In commodities, bonds, and crypto:Oil futures were down. West Texas Intermediate crude oil dipped 0.4% to $78.18 a barrel. Brent crude, the international benchmark, inched lower 0.3% to $82.34 a barrel.Gold slid 1.5% to $2,320 an ounce.The 10-year Treasury yield dropped five basis points to 4.236%.Bitcoin fell 1.1% to $66,664.52.

 







 



                                Read next
                              





MI Exclusive
Stock Market Today
stock market news

                        More...
                      


Advertisement



 



 


Close icon
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
                    


 
