Read full articleSimply Wall St.With 70% institutional ownership, The Walt Disney Company (NYSE:DIS) is a favorite amongst the big gunseditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Wed, Jun 5, 2024, 5:01 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsInstitutions' substantial holdings in Walt Disney implies that they have significant influence over the company's share priceA total of 25 investors have a majority stake in the company with 40% ownership Insiders have bought recently Every investor in The Walt Disney Company (NYSE:DIS) should be aware of the most powerful shareholder groups. With 70% stake, institutions possess the maximum shares in the company. Put another way, the group faces the maximum upside potential (or downside risk).Since institutional have access to huge amounts of capital, their market moves tend to receive a lot of scrutiny by retail or individual investors. Hence, having a considerable amount of institutional money invested in a company is often regarded as a desirable trait.In the chart below, we zoom in on the different ownership groups of Walt Disney. Check out our latest analysis for Walt Disney ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Walt Disney?Many institutions measure their performance against an index that approximates the local market. So they usually pay more attention to companies that are included in major indices.As you can see, institutional investors have a fair amount of stake in Walt Disney. This suggests some credibility amongst professional investors. But we can't rely on that fact alone since institutions make bad investments sometimes, just like everyone does. If multiple institutions change their view on a stock at the same time, you could see the share price drop fast. It's therefore worth looking at Walt Disney's earnings history below. Of course, the future is what really matters.earnings-and-revenue-growthInvestors should note that institutions actually own more than half the company, so they can collectively wield significant power. Walt Disney is not owned by hedge funds. The Vanguard Group, Inc. is currently the company's largest shareholder with 8.4% of shares outstanding. Meanwhile, the second and third largest shareholders, hold 6.7% and 4.2%, of the shares outstanding, respectively.Our studies suggest that the top 25 shareholders collectively control less than half of the company's shares, meaning that the company's shares are widely disseminated and there is no dominant shareholder.While it makes sense to study institutional ownership data for a company, it also makes sense to study analyst sentiments to know which way the wind is blowing. There are plenty of analysts covering the stock, so it might be worth seeing what they are forecasting, too.Insider Ownership Of Walt DisneyThe definition of company insiders can be subjective and does vary between jurisdictions. Our data reflects individual insiders, capturing board members at the very least. The company management answer to the board and the latter should represent the interests of shareholders. Notably, sometimes top-level managers are on the board themselves.Story continuesI generally consider insider ownership to be a good thing. However, on some occasions it makes it more difficult for other shareholders to hold the board accountable for decisions.Our most recent data indicates that insiders own less than 1% of The Walt Disney Company. Being so large, we would not expect insiders to own a large proportion of the stock. Collectively, they own US$56m of stock. In this sort of situation, it can be more interesting to  see if those insiders have been buying or selling. General Public OwnershipThe general public, who are usually individual investors, hold a 30% stake in Walt Disney. This size of ownership, while considerable, may not be enough to change company policy if the decision is not in sync with other large shareholders.Next Steps:While it is well worth considering the different groups that own a company, there are other factors that are even more important. Take risks for example - Walt Disney has   2 warning signs   we think you should be aware of.Ultimately the future is most important. You can access this free report on analyst forecasts for the company.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.View comments