Read full articleSimply Wall St.Institutional investors may adopt severe steps after Remitly Global, Inc.'s (NASDAQ:RELY) latest 3.5% drop adds to a year losseseditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Thu, May 30, 2024, 6:22 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsSignificantly high institutional ownership implies Remitly Global's stock price is sensitive to their trading actionsThe top 8 shareholders own 51% of the company Insiders have sold recently Every investor in Remitly Global, Inc. (NASDAQ:RELY) should be aware of the most powerful shareholder groups. With 58% stake, institutions possess the maximum shares in the company. That is, the group stands to benefit the most if the stock rises (or lose the most if there is a downturn).And institutional investors saw their holdings value drop by 3.5% last week. This set of investors may especially be concerned about the current loss, which adds to a one-year loss of 28% for shareholders. Also referred to as "smart money", institutions have a lot of sway over how a stock's price moves. As a result, if the decline continues, institutional investors may be pressured to sell Remitly Global which might hurt individual investors.In the chart below, we zoom in on the different ownership groups of Remitly Global. Check out our latest analysis for Remitly Global ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Remitly Global?Institutional investors commonly compare their own returns to the returns of a commonly followed index. So they generally do consider buying larger companies that are included in the relevant benchmark index.Remitly Global already has institutions on the share registry. Indeed, they own a respectable stake in the company. This suggests some credibility amongst professional investors. But we can't rely on that fact alone since institutions make bad investments sometimes, just like everyone does. If multiple institutions change their view on a stock at the same time, you could see the share price drop fast. It's therefore worth looking at Remitly Global's earnings history below. Of course, the future is what really matters.earnings-and-revenue-growthSince institutional investors own more than half the issued stock, the board will likely have to pay attention to their preferences. Hedge funds don't have many shares in Remitly Global. Our data shows that Naspers Limited is the largest shareholder with 19% of shares outstanding. The Vanguard Group, Inc. is the second largest shareholder owning 6.7% of common stock, and Baillie Gifford & Co. holds about 5.5% of the company stock. In addition, we found that Matthew Oppenheimer, the CEO has 2.4% of the shares allocated to their name.We also observed that the top 8 shareholders account for more than half of the share register, with a few smaller shareholders to balance the interests of the larger ones to a certain extent.Story continuesWhile studying institutional ownership for a company can add value to your research, it is also a good practice to research analyst recommendations to get a deeper understand of a stock's expected performance. There are plenty of analysts covering the stock, so it might be worth seeing what they are forecasting, too.Insider Ownership Of Remitly GlobalThe definition of an insider can differ slightly between different countries, but members of the board of directors always count. The company management answer to the board and the latter should represent the interests of shareholders. Notably, sometimes top-level managers are on the board themselves.Insider ownership is positive when it signals leadership are thinking like the true owners of the company. However, high insider ownership can also give immense power to a small group within the company. This can be negative in some circumstances.Our most recent data indicates that insiders own some shares in Remitly Global, Inc.. This is a big company, so it is good to see this level of alignment. Insiders own US$160m worth of shares (at current prices). If you would like to explore the question of insider alignment, you can  click here to see if insiders have been buying or selling. General Public OwnershipThe general public-- including retail investors -- own 17% stake in the company, and hence can't easily be ignored. While this size of ownership may not be enough to sway a policy decision in their favour, they can still make a collective impact on company policies.Public Company OwnershipPublic companies currently own 20% of Remitly Global stock. We can't be certain but it is quite possible this is a strategic stake. The businesses may be similar, or work together.Next Steps:While it is well worth considering the different groups that own a company, there are other factors that are even more important. For example, we've discovered 2 warning signs for Remitly Global that you should be aware of before investing here.If you are like me, you may want to think about whether this company will grow or shrink. Luckily, you can check this free report showing analyst forecasts for its future.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.View comments