Read full articleSimply Wall St.With 84% ownership of the shares, Barrett Business Services, Inc. (NASDAQ:BBSI) is heavily dominated by institutional ownerseditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Sun, Jun 9, 2024, 7:34 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsInstitutions' substantial holdings in Barrett Business Services implies that they have significant influence over the company's share priceA total of 14 investors have a majority stake in the company with 51% ownershipOwnership research along with  analyst forecasts data  help provide a good understanding of opportunities in a stockA look at the shareholders of Barrett Business Services, Inc. (NASDAQ:BBSI) can tell us which group is most powerful. And the group that holds the biggest piece of the pie are institutions with 84% ownership. That is, the group stands to benefit the most if the stock rises (or lose the most if there is a downturn).Given the vast amount of money and research capacities at their disposal, institutional ownership tends to carry a lot of weight, especially with individual investors. Hence, having a considerable amount of institutional money invested in a company is often regarded as a desirable trait.In the chart below, we zoom in on the different ownership groups of Barrett Business Services. Check out our latest analysis for Barrett Business Services ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Barrett Business Services?Institutional investors commonly compare their own returns to the returns of a commonly followed index. So they generally do consider buying larger companies that are included in the relevant benchmark index.We can see that Barrett Business Services does have institutional investors; and they hold a good portion of the company's stock. This implies the analysts working for those institutions have looked at the stock and they like it. But just like anyone else, they could be wrong. If multiple institutions change their view on a stock at the same time, you could see the share price drop fast. It's therefore worth looking at Barrett Business Services' earnings history below. Of course, the future is what really matters.earnings-and-revenue-growthInvestors should note that institutions actually own more than half the company, so they can collectively wield significant power. We note that hedge funds don't have a meaningful investment in Barrett Business Services. BlackRock, Inc. is currently the largest shareholder, with 7.7% of shares outstanding. The Vanguard Group, Inc. is the second largest shareholder owning 5.8% of common stock, and Private Capital Management, LLC holds about 5.1% of the company stock. In addition, we found that Gary Kramer, the CEO has 0.9% of the shares allocated to their name.After doing some more digging, we found that the top 14 have the combined ownership of 51% in the company, suggesting that no single shareholder has significant control over the company.Story continuesWhile studying institutional ownership for a company can add value to your research, it is also a good practice to research analyst recommendations to get a deeper understand of a stock's expected performance. There are a reasonable number of analysts covering the stock, so it might be useful to find out their aggregate view on the future.Insider Ownership Of Barrett Business ServicesThe definition of company insiders can be subjective and does vary between jurisdictions. Our data reflects individual insiders, capturing board members at the very least. The company management answer to the board and the latter should represent the interests of shareholders. Notably, sometimes top-level managers are on the board themselves.I generally consider insider ownership to be a good thing. However, on some occasions it makes it more difficult for other shareholders to hold the board accountable for decisions.Shareholders would probably be interested to learn that insiders own shares in Barrett Business Services, Inc.. It has a market capitalization of just US$856m, and insiders have US$25m worth of shares, in their own names. It is good to see some investment by insiders, but it might be worth checking if those insiders have been buying. General Public OwnershipThe general public-- including retail investors -- own 13% stake in the company, and hence can't easily be ignored. While this group can't necessarily call the shots, it can certainly have a real influence on how the company is run.Next Steps:I find it very interesting to look at who exactly owns a company. But to truly gain insight, we need to consider other information, too.Many find it useful to take an in depth look at how a company has performed in the past. You can access this detailed graph of past earnings, revenue and cash flow.Ultimately the future is most important. You can access this free report on analyst forecasts for the company.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.View comments