Read full articleSimply Wall St.Exelon Corporation (NASDAQ:EXC) is a favorite amongst institutional investors who own 85%editorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Mon, Jun 17, 2024, 6:00 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsInstitutions' substantial holdings in Exelon implies that they have significant influence over the company's share priceA total of 13 investors have a majority stake in the company with 51% ownership Analyst forecasts along with ownership data serve to give a strong idea about prospects for a businessA look at the shareholders of Exelon Corporation (NASDAQ:EXC) can tell us which group is most powerful. We can see that institutions own the lion's share in the company with 85% ownership. In other words, the group stands to gain the most (or lose the most) from their investment into the company.Since institutional have access to huge amounts of capital, their market moves tend to receive a lot of scrutiny by retail or individual investors. Hence, having a considerable amount of institutional money invested in a company is often regarded as a desirable trait.Let's take a closer look to see what the different types of shareholders can tell us about Exelon. View our latest analysis for Exelon ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Exelon?Many institutions measure their performance against an index that approximates the local market. So they usually pay more attention to companies that are included in major indices.Exelon already has institutions on the share registry. Indeed, they own a respectable stake in the company. This can indicate that the company has a certain degree of credibility in the investment community. However, it is best to be wary of relying on the supposed validation that comes with institutional investors. They too, get it wrong sometimes. If multiple institutions change their view on a stock at the same time, you could see the share price drop fast. It's therefore worth looking at Exelon's earnings history below. Of course, the future is what really matters.earnings-and-revenue-growthInvestors should note that institutions actually own more than half the company, so they can collectively wield significant power. Hedge funds don't have many shares in Exelon. The Vanguard Group, Inc. is currently the largest shareholder, with 11% of shares outstanding. With 9.3% and 8.9% of the shares outstanding respectively, Wellington Management Group LLP and BlackRock, Inc. are the second and third largest shareholders.After doing some more digging, we found that the top 13 have the combined ownership of 51% in the company, suggesting that no single shareholder has significant control over the company.While studying institutional ownership for a company can add value to your research, it is also a good practice to research analyst recommendations to get a deeper understand of a stock's expected performance. There are a reasonable number of analysts covering the stock, so it might be useful to find out their aggregate view on the future.Story continuesInsider Ownership Of ExelonThe definition of company insiders can be subjective and does vary between jurisdictions. Our data reflects individual insiders, capturing board members at the very least. Management ultimately answers to the board. However, it is not uncommon for managers to be executive board members, especially if they are a founder or the CEO.I generally consider insider ownership to be a good thing. However, on some occasions it makes it more difficult for other shareholders to hold the board accountable for decisions.Our data suggests that insiders own under 1% of Exelon Corporation in their own names. Being so large, we would not expect insiders to own a large proportion of the stock. Collectively, they own US$31m of stock. Arguably recent buying and selling is just as important to consider. You can  click here to see if insiders have been buying or selling. General Public OwnershipThe general public-- including retail investors -- own 15% stake in the company, and hence can't easily be ignored. This size of ownership, while considerable, may not be enough to change company policy if the decision is not in sync with other large shareholders.Next Steps:It's always worth thinking about the different groups who own shares in a company. But to understand Exelon better, we need to consider many other factors. For instance, we've identified   2 warning signs for Exelon (1 is a bit concerning)  that you should be aware of.If you are like me, you may want to think about whether this company will grow or shrink. Luckily, you can check this free report showing analyst forecasts for its future.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team@simplywallst.comView comments