Read full articleSimply Wall St.Atlantic Union Bankshares Corporation's (NYSE:AUB) institutional investors lost 5.7% over the past week but have profited from longer-term gainseditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Thu, May 30, 2024, 4:31 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:   Key InsightsGiven the large stake in the stock by institutions, Atlantic Union Bankshares' stock price might be vulnerable to their trading decisions50% of the business is held by the top 19 shareholders Insiders have bought recently Every investor in Atlantic Union Bankshares Corporation (NYSE:AUB) should be aware of the most powerful shareholder groups. With 66% stake, institutions possess the maximum shares in the company. That is, the group stands to benefit the most if the stock rises (or lose the most if there is a downturn).Institutional investors endured the highest losses after the company's market cap fell by US$171m last week. However, the 28% one-year returns may have helped alleviate their overall losses. But they would probably be wary of future losses.Let's take a closer look to see what the different types of shareholders can tell us about Atlantic Union Bankshares. Check out our latest analysis for Atlantic Union Bankshares ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Atlantic Union Bankshares?Institutions typically measure themselves against a benchmark when reporting to their own investors, so they often become more enthusiastic about a stock once it's included in a major index. We would expect most companies to have some institutions on the register, especially if they are growing.We can see that Atlantic Union Bankshares does have institutional investors; and they hold a good portion of the company's stock. This suggests some credibility amongst professional investors. But we can't rely on that fact alone since institutions make bad investments sometimes, just like everyone does. When multiple institutions own a stock, there's always a risk that they are in a 'crowded trade'. When such a trade goes wrong, multiple parties may compete to sell stock fast. This risk is higher in a company without a history of growth. You can see Atlantic Union Bankshares' historic earnings and revenue below, but keep in mind there's always more to the story.earnings-and-revenue-growthInvestors should note that institutions actually own more than half the company, so they can collectively wield significant power. Hedge funds don't have many shares in Atlantic Union Bankshares. Looking at our data, we can see that the largest shareholder is BlackRock, Inc. with 12% of shares outstanding. With 10% and 5.6% of the shares outstanding respectively, The Vanguard Group, Inc. and Dimensional Fund Advisors LP are the second and third largest shareholders.A closer look at our ownership figures suggests that the top 19 shareholders have a combined ownership of 50% implying that no single shareholder has a majority.Story continuesWhile it makes sense to study institutional ownership data for a company, it also makes sense to study analyst sentiments to know which way the wind is blowing. Quite a few analysts cover the stock, so you could look into forecast growth quite easily.Insider Ownership Of Atlantic Union BanksharesThe definition of an insider can differ slightly between different countries, but members of the board of directors always count. The company management answer to the board and the latter should represent the interests of shareholders. Notably, sometimes top-level managers are on the board themselves.Most consider insider ownership a positive because it can indicate the board is well aligned with other shareholders. However, on some occasions too much power is concentrated within this group.We can see that insiders own shares in Atlantic Union Bankshares Corporation. This is a big company, so it is good to see this level of alignment. Insiders own US$35m worth of shares (at current prices). Most would say this shows alignment of interests between shareholders and the board. Still, it might be worth checking if those insiders have been selling. General Public OwnershipWith a 32% ownership, the general public, mostly comprising of individual investors, have some degree of sway over Atlantic Union Bankshares. This size of ownership, while considerable, may not be enough to change company policy if the decision is not in sync with other large shareholders.Next Steps:While it is well worth considering the different groups that own a company, there are other factors that are even more important. Consider for instance, the ever-present spectre of investment risk.   We've identified 1 warning sign  with Atlantic Union Bankshares , and understanding them should be part of your investment process.If you are like me, you may want to think about whether this company will grow or shrink. Luckily, you can check this free report showing analyst forecasts for its future.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.View comments