Read full articleSimply Wall St.Illinois Tool Works Inc. (NYSE:ITW) is favoured by institutional owners who hold 82% of the companyeditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Fri, Jun 21, 2024, 4:00 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsGiven the large stake in the stock by institutions, Illinois Tool Works' stock price might be vulnerable to their trading decisionsA total of 13 investors have a majority stake in the company with 50% ownership Insiders have bought recently If you want to know who really controls Illinois Tool Works Inc. (NYSE:ITW), then you'll have to look at the makeup of its share registry. We can see that institutions own the lion's share in the company with 82% ownership. Put another way, the group faces the maximum upside potential (or downside risk).Because institutional owners have a huge pool of resources and liquidity, their investing decisions tend to carry a great deal of weight, especially with individual investors. As a result, a sizeable amount of institutional money invested in a firm is generally viewed as a positive attribute.Let's take a closer look to see what the different types of shareholders can tell us about Illinois Tool Works. See our latest analysis for Illinois Tool Works ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Illinois Tool Works?Institutional investors commonly compare their own returns to the returns of a commonly followed index. So they generally do consider buying larger companies that are included in the relevant benchmark index.We can see that Illinois Tool Works does have institutional investors; and they hold a good portion of the company's stock. This suggests some credibility amongst professional investors. But we can't rely on that fact alone since institutions make bad investments sometimes, just like everyone does. When multiple institutions own a stock, there's always a risk that they are in a 'crowded trade'. When such a trade goes wrong, multiple parties may compete to sell stock fast. This risk is higher in a company without a history of growth. You can see Illinois Tool Works' historic earnings and revenue below, but keep in mind there's always more to the story.earnings-and-revenue-growthInstitutional investors own over 50% of the company, so together than can probably strongly influence board decisions. We note that hedge funds don't have a meaningful investment in Illinois Tool Works. Our data shows that Briar Hall Management LLC is the largest shareholder with 8.8% of shares outstanding. With 8.7% and 7.0% of the shares outstanding respectively, The Vanguard Group, Inc. and State Farm Insurance Companies, Asset Management Arm are the second and third largest shareholders.A closer look at our ownership figures suggests that the top 13 shareholders have a combined ownership of 50% implying that no single shareholder has a majority.Story continuesWhile it makes sense to study institutional ownership data for a company, it also makes sense to study analyst sentiments to know which way the wind is blowing. There are plenty of analysts covering the stock, so it might be worth seeing what they are forecasting, too.Insider Ownership Of Illinois Tool WorksThe definition of an insider can differ slightly between different countries, but members of the board of directors always count. Management ultimately answers to the board. However, it is not uncommon for managers to be executive board members, especially if they are a founder or the CEO.I generally consider insider ownership to be a good thing. However, on some occasions it makes it more difficult for other shareholders to hold the board accountable for decisions.Our most recent data indicates that insiders own less than 1% of Illinois Tool Works Inc.. As it is a large company, we'd only expect insiders to own a small percentage of it. But it's worth noting that they own US$227m worth of shares. Arguably recent buying and selling is just as important to consider. You can  click here to see if insiders have been buying or selling. General Public OwnershipThe general public-- including retail investors -- own 17% stake in the company, and hence can't easily be ignored. While this size of ownership may not be enough to sway a policy decision in their favour, they can still make a collective impact on company policies.Next Steps:I find it very interesting to look at who exactly owns a company. But to truly gain insight, we need to consider other information, too. Take risks for example - Illinois Tool Works has   1 warning sign   we think you should be aware of.Ultimately the future is most important. You can access this free report on analyst forecasts for the company.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team@simplywallst.comView comments