




                                    News
                                  

Chevron icon
It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options.

 
                                    stocks
                                  
 
Stock market today: US stocks edge lower as AI-fueled tech rally stalls      










Matthew Fox 

                                  2024-06-21T13:35:45Z
                                 



Matthew Fox




Share icon
An curved arrow pointing right.

 Share





Facebook Icon
The letter F.


Facebook
 



Email icon
An envelope. It indicates the ability to send an email.


Email
 



Twitter icon
A stylized bird with an open mouth, tweeting.


Twitter
 



Link icon
An image of a chain link. It symobilizes a website link url.


Copy Link
 
 



Save Article Icon
A bookmark

 Save





 
                                      Read in app
                                  












Angle down icon
An icon in the shape of an angle pointing down.

 

Traders look on after trading was halted on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York, U.S., March 18, 2020
 
                            Lucas Jackson/Reuters
                          









US stocks moved slightly lower on Friday following a sharp reversal in tech stocks on Thursday.
Advertisement

The AI-fueled tech rally showed signs of exhaustion, with the stalwart Nvidia experiencing a near 7% swing in Thursday's trading session, rising as much as 3% before it finished the day lower by 3.5%.Other AI tech darlings saw sharp reversals and moved lower on Thursday, with those losses spilling over into Friday's trading session.Shares of Nvidia were down an additional 2% in early Friday trades, while Dell, Broadcom, and Super Micro Computer were down between 1% and 2%.With earnings season over, investors will focus on economic data releases next week, including US retail sales for May, industrial production, jobless claims, and a slew of speeches from top Federal Reserve officials.
Advertisement

A recent uptick in jobless claims to the highest level since last August, combined with a sharp downturn in housing starts has some worried that recessionary cracks are beginning to form in the economy."The May slowdown in housing starts, notably single-family, is not a one-off. There is rising inventory and a perceived drop in traffic that is recessionary in its level," GlobalData TS Lombard said on Thursday.Here's where US indexes stood shortly after the 9:30 a.m. opening bell on Friday:S&P 500: 5,471.07, down 0.05% Dow Jones Industrial Average: 39,173.92, up 0.1% (+28.84 points)Nasdaq composite: 17,706.92, down 0.08% 
Advertisement

Here's what else is going on today:America's 'cardboard-box recession' is finally over, according to Bank of America.These four US regions will likely see big electricity bill increases this summer, according to the EIA.The US debt will soar to $56 trillion in the next 10 years as government spending continues to outpace revenues, according to the CBO.In commodities, bonds, and crypto:West Texas Intermediate crude oil rose 0.26% to $81.50 a barrel. Brent crude, the international benchmark, was higher by 0.21% to $85.89 a barrel.Gold edged higher by 0.30% to $2,375.50 per ounce.The 10-year Treasury yield dropped three basis points to 4.23%.Bitcoin dropped 1.65% to $63,777.

 







 



                                Read next
                              





MI Exclusive
Stock Market Today
stock market news

                        More...
                      


Advertisement



 



 


Close icon
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
                    


 
