Read full articleSimply Wall St.In the wake of Northwest Natural Holding Company's (NYSE:NWN) latest US$88m market cap drop, institutional owners may be forced to take severe actionseditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Sun, May 26, 2024, 6:14 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsGiven the large stake in the stock by institutions, Northwest Natural Holding's stock price might be vulnerable to their trading decisionsThe top 11 shareholders own 51% of the company Insiders have been selling lately A look at the shareholders of Northwest Natural Holding Company (NYSE:NWN) can tell us which group is most powerful. With 77% stake, institutions possess the maximum shares in the company. Put another way, the group faces the maximum upside potential (or downside risk).And institutional investors saw their holdings value drop by 6.0% last week. Needless to say, the recent loss which further adds to the one-year loss to shareholders of 13% might not go down well especially with this category of shareholders. Institutions or "liquidity providers" control large sums of money and therefore, these types of investors usually have a lot of influence over stock price movements. Hence, if weakness in Northwest Natural Holding's share price continues, institutional investors may feel compelled to sell the stock, which might not be ideal for individual investors.Let's take a closer look to see what the different types of shareholders can tell us about Northwest Natural Holding. Check out our latest analysis for Northwest Natural Holding ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Northwest Natural Holding?Many institutions measure their performance against an index that approximates the local market. So they usually pay more attention to companies that are included in major indices.Northwest Natural Holding already has institutions on the share registry. Indeed, they own a respectable stake in the company. This suggests some credibility amongst professional investors. But we can't rely on that fact alone since institutions make bad investments sometimes, just like everyone does. If multiple institutions change their view on a stock at the same time, you could see the share price drop fast. It's therefore worth looking at Northwest Natural Holding's earnings history below. Of course, the future is what really matters.earnings-and-revenue-growthInvestors should note that institutions actually own more than half the company, so they can collectively wield significant power. Northwest Natural Holding is not owned by hedge funds. Our data shows that BlackRock, Inc. is the largest shareholder with 17% of shares outstanding. With 12% and 4.8% of the shares outstanding respectively, The Vanguard Group, Inc. and State Street Global Advisors, Inc. are the second and third largest shareholders.Story continuesLooking at the shareholder registry, we can see that 51% of the ownership is controlled by the top 11 shareholders, meaning that no single shareholder has a majority interest in the ownership.While studying institutional ownership for a company can add value to your research, it is also a good practice to research analyst recommendations to get a deeper understand of a stock's expected performance. There are a reasonable number of analysts covering the stock, so it might be useful to find out their aggregate view on the future.Insider Ownership Of Northwest Natural HoldingWhile the precise definition of an insider can be subjective, almost everyone considers board members to be insiders. Company management run the business, but the CEO will answer to the board, even if he or she is a member of it.I generally consider insider ownership to be a good thing. However, on some occasions it makes it more difficult for other shareholders to hold the board accountable for decisions.Our data suggests that insiders own under 1% of Northwest Natural Holding Company in their own names. It is a pretty big company, so it would be possible for board members to own a meaningful interest in the company, without owning much of a proportional interest. In this case, they own around US$11m worth of shares (at current prices). It is always good to see at least some insider ownership, but it might be worth checking if those insiders have been selling. General Public OwnershipThe general public, who are usually individual investors, hold a 23% stake in Northwest Natural Holding. This size of ownership, while considerable, may not be enough to change company policy if the decision is not in sync with other large shareholders.Next Steps:It's always worth thinking about the different groups who own shares in a company. But to understand Northwest Natural Holding better, we need to consider many other factors. Be aware that  Northwest Natural Holding is showing  3 warning signs in our investment analysis , and 1 of those is concerning...But ultimately  it is the future, not the past, that will determine how well the owners of this business will do. Therefore we think it advisable to take a look at this free report showing whether analysts are predicting a brighter future.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.View comments