




                                    News
                                  

Chevron icon
It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options.

 
                                    stocks
                                  
 
Stock market today: US stocks climb as wholesale inflation data shows big cooldown in prices










Filip De Mott 

                                  2024-06-13T13:38:12Z
                                 



Filip De Mott




Share icon
An curved arrow pointing right.

 Share





Facebook Icon
The letter F.


Facebook
 



Email icon
An envelope. It indicates the ability to send an email.


Email
 



Twitter icon
A stylized bird with an open mouth, tweeting.


Twitter
 



Link icon
An image of a chain link. It symobilizes a website link url.


Copy Link
 
 



Save Article Icon
A bookmark

 Save





 
                                      Read in app
                                  












Angle down icon
An icon in the shape of an angle pointing down.

 

Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.
 

                            Spencer Platt/Getty Images
                              










Stocks rose Thursday after another encouraging inflation reading.The producer price index slid 0.2% month over month against forecasts of a 0.1% decrease.Tesla stock jumped as Elon Musk said on X his pay package was headed for approval. 










 


                                    Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview








 















Thanks for signing up!


                              Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go.
                              
                                download the app
                               





Email address





                                      Sign up
                                     



                                  By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. You can opt-out at any time by visiting our Preferences page or by clicking "unsubscribe" at the bottom of the email.
                              








 


Advertisement

US stocks continued their rally to record highs on Thursday after investors took in another cooler-than-expected inflation print.Stocks capped off Wednesday's session at a record, with markets pointing toward fresh all-time highs as trading kicked off on Thursday.In May, the producer price index slid 0.2% month over month against forecasts of a 0.1% decrease. According to Bloomberg, that marks the largest decline for the wholesale-inflation gauge since October. PPI rose 2.2% from a year ago."Thursday's weaker-than-expected PPI data is another sign of continued progress on inflation, and it keeps the prospect of a rate cut alive in 2024," Clark Bellin, Bellwether Wealth's chief investment officer, said.
Advertisement

The PPI report follows similar softness in Wednesday's report on the consumer price index for May, which prompted hope that the Federal Reserve has room to cut interest rates this year.The 10-year Treasury yield continued its slide lower, dropping two basis points to 4.373% after a steep decline Wednesday following the cooler CPI reading.Fed officials noted progress on inflation, though interest rates were left unchanged after this week's policy meeting, with one interest-rate cut penciled in. However, investors remain more optimistic, expecting two 25-basis-point cuts, according to the CME FedWatch Tool.Tesla stock jumped more than 6% as Elon Musk said on X that his $56 billion compensation package was headed for shareholder approval. DealBook reported Thursday morning that Vanguard and BlackRock would vote in favor of the pay deal, giving Musk a boost from two of the world's biggest asset managers.
Advertisement

Here's where US indexes stood at the 9:30 a.m. opening bell on Thursday:S&P 500: 5,429.86, up 0.16%Dow Jones Industrial Average: 38,566.01, down 0.38% (minus 133.22 points)Nasdaq composite: 17,692.39, up 0.48%Here's what else is going on today:GameStop could make more money than in recent quarters just by sitting on its $4 billion cash pile.The worst stock crash since 1929 is coming after a brief rally in the S&P 500, a "black swan" investor says.A new South African policy is being hailed as the first national universal-basic-income program — it's not, experts say.
Advertisement

In commodities, bonds, and crypto:West Texas Intermediate crude oil ticked down 0.24% to $78.09 a barrel. Brent crude, the international benchmark, inched up 0.16% to $82.73 a barrel.Gold slid 0.20% to $2,318.42 an ounce.The 10-year Treasury yield dropped two basis points to 4.373%.Bitcoin fell 1.8% to $68,071.62.

 







 



                                Read next
                              





MI Exclusive
daily market wrap
Stock Market

                        More...
                      


Advertisement



 



 


Close icon
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
                    


 
