Read full articleSimply Wall St.Bank of America Corporation (NYSE:BAC) is largely controlled by institutional shareholders who own 60% of the companyeditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Mon, Jun 17, 2024, 7:00 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsGiven the large stake in the stock by institutions, Bank of America's stock price might be vulnerable to their trading decisions49% of the business is held by the top 25 shareholders Analyst forecasts along with ownership data serve to give a strong idea about prospects for a businessA look at the shareholders of Bank of America Corporation (NYSE:BAC) can tell us which group is most powerful. The group holding the most number of shares in the company, around 60% to be precise, is institutions. In other words, the group stands to gain the most (or lose the most) from their investment into the company.Since institutional have access to huge amounts of capital, their market moves tend to receive a lot of scrutiny by retail or individual investors. Therefore, a good portion of institutional money invested in the company is usually a huge vote of confidence on its future.Let's delve deeper into each type of owner of Bank of America, beginning with the chart below. Check out our latest analysis for Bank of America ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Bank of America?Institutions typically measure themselves against a benchmark when reporting to their own investors, so they often become more enthusiastic about a stock once it's included in a major index. We would expect most companies to have some institutions on the register, especially if they are growing.We can see that Bank of America does have institutional investors; and they hold a good portion of the company's stock. This suggests some credibility amongst professional investors. But we can't rely on that fact alone since institutions make bad investments sometimes, just like everyone does. It is not uncommon to see a big share price drop if two large institutional investors try to sell out of a stock at the same time. So it is worth checking the past earnings trajectory of Bank of America, (below). Of course, keep in mind that there are other factors to consider, too.earnings-and-revenue-growthInvestors should note that institutions actually own more than half the company, so they can collectively wield significant power. We note that hedge funds don't have a meaningful investment in Bank of America. The company's largest shareholder is Berkshire Hathaway Inc., with ownership of 13%. With 8.2% and 6.2% of the shares outstanding respectively, The Vanguard Group, Inc. and BlackRock, Inc. are the second and third largest shareholders.A deeper look at our ownership data shows that the top 25 shareholders collectively hold less than half of the register, suggesting a large group of small holders where no single shareholder has a majority.Story continuesWhile it makes sense to study institutional ownership data for a company, it also makes sense to study analyst sentiments to know which way the wind is blowing. Quite a few analysts cover the stock, so you could look into forecast growth quite easily.Insider Ownership Of Bank of AmericaWhile the precise definition of an insider can be subjective, almost everyone considers board members to be insiders. The company management answer to the board and the latter should represent the interests of shareholders. Notably, sometimes top-level managers are on the board themselves.Insider ownership is positive when it signals leadership are thinking like the true owners of the company. However, high insider ownership can also give immense power to a small group within the company. This can be negative in some circumstances.Our most recent data indicates that insiders own less than 1% of Bank of America Corporation. Being so large, we would not expect insiders to own a large proportion of the stock. Collectively, they own US$433m of stock. It is good to see board members owning shares, but it might be worth checking if those insiders have been buying. General Public OwnershipWith a 27% ownership, the general public, mostly comprising of individual investors, have some degree of sway over Bank of America. This size of ownership, while considerable, may not be enough to change company policy if the decision is not in sync with other large shareholders.Public Company OwnershipIt appears to us that public companies own 13% of Bank of America. It's hard to say for sure but this suggests they have entwined business interests. This might be a strategic stake, so it's worth watching this space for changes in ownership.Next Steps:While it is well worth considering the different groups that own a company, there are other factors that are even more important.I like to dive deeper into how a company has performed in the past. You can find historic revenue and earnings in this detailed graph.Ultimately the future is most important. You can access this free report on analyst forecasts for the company.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team@simplywallst.comView comments