Read full articleSimply Wall St.With 86% institutional ownership, Woodward, Inc. (NASDAQ:WWD) is a favorite amongst the big gunseditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Mon, May 27, 2024, 9:07 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsGiven the large stake in the stock by institutions, Woodward's stock price might be vulnerable to their trading decisionsThe top 12 shareholders own 51% of the companyUsing data from analyst forecasts alongside ownership research, one can better assess the future performance of a companyIf you want to know who really controls Woodward, Inc. (NASDAQ:WWD), then you'll have to look at the makeup of its share registry. And the group that holds the biggest piece of the pie are institutions with 86% ownership. That is, the group stands to benefit the most if the stock rises (or lose the most if there is a downturn).Given the vast amount of money and research capacities at their disposal, institutional ownership tends to carry a lot of weight, especially with individual investors. As a result, a sizeable amount of institutional money invested in a firm is generally viewed as a positive attribute.In the chart below, we zoom in on the different ownership groups of Woodward. Check out our latest analysis for Woodward ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Woodward?Many institutions measure their performance against an index that approximates the local market. So they usually pay more attention to companies that are included in major indices.As you can see, institutional investors have a fair amount of stake in Woodward. This implies the analysts working for those institutions have looked at the stock and they like it. But just like anyone else, they could be wrong. It is not uncommon to see a big share price drop if two large institutional investors try to sell out of a stock at the same time. So it is worth checking the past earnings trajectory of Woodward, (below). Of course, keep in mind that there are other factors to consider, too.earnings-and-revenue-growthInstitutional investors own over 50% of the company, so together than can probably strongly influence board decisions. Hedge funds don't have many shares in Woodward. Our data shows that BlackRock, Inc. is the largest shareholder with 9.9% of shares outstanding. With 9.6% and 6.3% of the shares outstanding respectively, The Vanguard Group, Inc. and Eagle Capital Management LLC are the second and third largest shareholders.Looking at the shareholder registry, we can see that 51% of the ownership is controlled by the top 12 shareholders, meaning that no single shareholder has a majority interest in the ownership.While it makes sense to study institutional ownership data for a company, it also makes sense to study analyst sentiments to know which way the wind is blowing. There are plenty of analysts covering the stock, so it might be worth seeing what they are forecasting, too.Story continuesInsider Ownership Of WoodwardThe definition of company insiders can be subjective and does vary between jurisdictions. Our data reflects individual insiders, capturing board members at the very least. Management ultimately answers to the board. However, it is not uncommon for managers to be executive board members, especially if they are a founder or the CEO.I generally consider insider ownership to be a good thing. However, on some occasions it makes it more difficult for other shareholders to hold the board accountable for decisions.Our information suggests that Woodward, Inc. insiders own under 1% of the company. As it is a large company, we'd only expect insiders to own a small percentage of it. But it's worth noting that they own US$91m worth of shares. It is always good to see at least some insider ownership, but it might be worth checking if those insiders have been selling. General Public OwnershipWith a 13% ownership, the general public, mostly comprising of individual investors, have some degree of sway over Woodward. This size of ownership, while considerable, may not be enough to change company policy if the decision is not in sync with other large shareholders.Next Steps:I find it very interesting to look at who exactly owns a company. But to truly gain insight, we need to consider other information, too.I like to dive deeper into how a company has performed in the past. You can access this interactive graph of past earnings, revenue and cash flow, for free.If you are like me, you may want to think about whether this company will grow or shrink. Luckily, you can check this free report showing analyst forecasts for its future.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.View comments