




                                    News
                                  

Chevron icon
It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options.

 
                                    stocks
                                  
 
A global labor shortage will send tech stocks soaring, with the sector poised to grow to 50% of the total stock market, Fundstrat says










Matthew Fox 

                                  2024-06-19T18:38:12Z
                                 



Matthew Fox




Share icon
An curved arrow pointing right.

 Share





Facebook Icon
The letter F.


Facebook
 



Email icon
An envelope. It indicates the ability to send an email.


Email
 



Twitter icon
A stylized bird with an open mouth, tweeting.


Twitter
 



Link icon
An image of a chain link. It symobilizes a website link url.


Copy Link
 
 



Save Article Icon
A bookmark

 Save





 
                                      Read in app
                                  










                                  Cindy Ord/Getty Images
                                








A global labor shortage of about 80 million workers will make tech stocks go parabolic, according to Fundstrat's Tom Lee.
Lee argued that the technology sector will eventually make up 50% of the S&P 500.
"I think AI is really addressing a global labor shortage of roughly 80 million workers by the end of 2030," Lee said.











 


                                    Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview








 















Thanks for signing up!


                              Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go.
                              
                                download the app
                               





Email address





                                      Sign up
                                     



                                  By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. You can opt-out at any time by visiting our Preferences page or by clicking "unsubscribe" at the bottom of the email.
                              








 


Advertisement

A global labor shortage of about 80 million workers by the end of 2030 is going to send technology stocks soaring, according to Fundstrat's Tom Lee. Lee said in a video to clients last month that he expects the technology sector will grow to 50% of the S&P 500 from its current weight in the benchmark index of around 30%. Lee made the comments shortly after Nvidia posed a blockbuster first-quarter earnings report, which sent the stock soaring to record highs. However, according to Lee, it's still early days for the AI story because it will help boost productivity and tackle a looming labor shortage problem."The prime age workforce is growing slower than the total world population and by the end of the decade that gap is around 80 million workers. So unless there is a productivity boom which is what AI will do, it's going to create a lot of pressure on companies or incentives for them to innovate. And that means you're going to see a shift from annual wage spend to silicon spend," Lee said.
Advertisement

Lee estimates that companies will spend roughly $3.2 trillion per year on AI tech to address the growing labor shortage.Nvidia, which is approaching about $120 billion in annual revenue, stands to benefit from that spending in a big way, Lee said.This isn't the first time a global labor shortage has led to a parabolic move higher in technology stocks as tech companies helped boost productivity.






                          
                          Fundstrat
                          
                          

"Between 1948 and 1967 there was a global labor shortage and technology stocks went parabolic. And between 1991 and 1999 there was a global labor shortage and technology stocks went parabolic, so this is what's happening today," Lee said.
Advertisement

And as to whether Nvidia is in a bubble similar to the dot-com bubble, when shares of Cisco soared to record highs on the promise of the internet, Lee put things into perspective."Keep in mind Nvidia sells a $100,000 chip since it's scarce, no one else really sells it. By contrast Cisco sold a $100 router during the internet boom, and yet they got to a 100x P/E. I think Nvidia's 30x P/E seems pretty attractive and that's why we think it's early days," Lee said.






                          
                          Fundstrat
                          
                          

This story was originally published in May 2024

 







 



                                Read next
                              





MI Exclusive
Stock Market Outlook
Stock Market Analysis

                        More...
                      


Advertisement



 



 


Close icon
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
                    


 
