Read full articleSimply Wall St.JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE:JPM) is largely controlled by institutional shareholders who own 73% of the companyeditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Wed, May 29, 2024, 6:00 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsInstitutions' substantial holdings in JPMorgan Chase implies that they have significant influence over the company's share price44% of the business is held by the top 25 shareholders Insiders have been selling lately A look at the shareholders of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE:JPM) can tell us which group is most powerful. With 73% stake, institutions possess the maximum shares in the company. In other words, the group stands to gain the most (or lose the most) from their investment into the company.Given the vast amount of money and research capacities at their disposal, institutional ownership tends to carry a lot of weight, especially with individual investors. Hence, having a considerable amount of institutional money invested in a company is often regarded as a desirable trait.Let's take a closer look to see what the different types of shareholders can tell us about JPMorgan Chase. View our latest analysis for JPMorgan Chase ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About JPMorgan Chase?Institutional investors commonly compare their own returns to the returns of a commonly followed index. So they generally do consider buying larger companies that are included in the relevant benchmark index.We can see that JPMorgan Chase does have institutional investors; and they hold a good portion of the company's stock. This can indicate that the company has a certain degree of credibility in the investment community. However, it is best to be wary of relying on the supposed validation that comes with institutional investors. They too, get it wrong sometimes. If multiple institutions change their view on a stock at the same time, you could see the share price drop fast. It's therefore worth looking at JPMorgan Chase's earnings history below. Of course, the future is what really matters.earnings-and-revenue-growthInstitutional investors own over 50% of the company, so together than can probably strongly influence board decisions. Hedge funds don't have many shares in JPMorgan Chase. The Vanguard Group, Inc. is currently the largest shareholder, with 9.4% of shares outstanding. For context, the second largest shareholder holds about 6.8% of the shares outstanding, followed by an ownership of 4.4% by the third-largest shareholder.A deeper look at our ownership data shows that the top 25 shareholders collectively hold less than half of the register, suggesting a large group of small holders where no single shareholder has a majority.While it makes sense to study institutional ownership data for a company, it also makes sense to study analyst sentiments to know which way the wind is blowing. Quite a few analysts cover the stock, so you could look into forecast growth quite easily.Story continuesInsider Ownership Of JPMorgan ChaseWhile the precise definition of an insider can be subjective, almost everyone considers board members to be insiders. Management ultimately answers to the board. However, it is not uncommon for managers to be executive board members, especially if they are a founder or the CEO.Most consider insider ownership a positive because it can indicate the board is well aligned with other shareholders. However, on some occasions too much power is concentrated within this group.Our data suggests that insiders own under 1% of JPMorgan Chase & Co. in their own names. As it is a large company, we'd only expect insiders to own a small percentage of it. But it's worth noting that they own US$2.1b worth of shares. It is good to see board members owning shares, but it might be worth checking if those insiders have been buying. General Public OwnershipThe general public-- including retail investors -- own 26% stake in the company, and hence can't easily be ignored. While this size of ownership may not be enough to sway a policy decision in their favour, they can still make a collective impact on company policies.Next Steps:It's always worth thinking about the different groups who own shares in a company. But to understand JPMorgan Chase better, we need to consider many other factors. To that end, you should learn about the   2 warning signs  we've spotted with JPMorgan Chase (including 1 which is a bit concerning) .But ultimately  it is the future, not the past, that will determine how well the owners of this business will do. Therefore we think it advisable to take a look at this free report showing whether analysts are predicting a brighter future.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.View comments