Read full articleSimply Wall St.Applied Optoelectronics, Inc.'s (NASDAQ:AAOI) institutional investors lost 12% last week but have benefitted from longer-term gainseditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Fri, Jun 21, 2024, 4:41 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsSignificantly high institutional ownership implies Applied Optoelectronics' stock price is sensitive to their trading actionsA total of 19 investors have a majority stake in the company with 50% ownership Recent purchases by insiders A look at the shareholders of Applied Optoelectronics, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAOI) can tell us which group is most powerful. We can see that institutions own the lion's share in the company with 69% ownership. That is, the group stands to benefit the most if the stock rises (or lose the most if there is a downturn).Institutional investors endured the highest losses after the company's market cap fell by US$47m last week. Still, the 135% one-year gains may have helped mitigate their overall losses. We would assume however, that they would be on the lookout for weakness in the future.Let's take a closer look to see what the different types of shareholders can tell us about Applied Optoelectronics. View our latest analysis for Applied Optoelectronics ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Applied Optoelectronics?Institutions typically measure themselves against a benchmark when reporting to their own investors, so they often become more enthusiastic about a stock once it's included in a major index. We would expect most companies to have some institutions on the register, especially if they are growing.We can see that Applied Optoelectronics does have institutional investors; and they hold a good portion of the company's stock. This implies the analysts working for those institutions have looked at the stock and they like it. But just like anyone else, they could be wrong. When multiple institutions own a stock, there's always a risk that they are in a 'crowded trade'. When such a trade goes wrong, multiple parties may compete to sell stock fast. This risk is higher in a company without a history of growth. You can see Applied Optoelectronics' historic earnings and revenue below, but keep in mind there's always more to the story.earnings-and-revenue-growthSince institutional investors own more than half the issued stock, the board will likely have to pay attention to their preferences. We note that hedge funds don't have a meaningful investment in Applied Optoelectronics. Our data shows that The Vanguard Group, Inc. is the largest shareholder with 5.0% of shares outstanding. Meanwhile, the second and third largest shareholders, hold 3.9% and 3.8%, of the shares outstanding, respectively. In addition, we found that Chih-Hsiang Lin, the CEO has 2.2% of the shares allocated to their name.Story continuesAfter doing some more digging, we found that the top 19 have the combined ownership of 50% in the company, suggesting that no single shareholder has significant control over the company.While studying institutional ownership for a company can add value to your research, it is also a good practice to research analyst recommendations to get a deeper understand of a stock's expected performance. There are a reasonable number of analysts covering the stock, so it might be useful to find out their aggregate view on the future.Insider Ownership Of Applied OptoelectronicsThe definition of company insiders can be subjective and does vary between jurisdictions. Our data reflects individual insiders, capturing board members at the very least. Company management run the business, but the CEO will answer to the board, even if he or she is a member of it.Most consider insider ownership a positive because it can indicate the board is well aligned with other shareholders. However, on some occasions too much power is concentrated within this group.We can report that insiders do own shares in Applied Optoelectronics, Inc.. In their own names, insiders own US$22m worth of stock in the US$391m company. This shows at least some alignment. You can  click here to see if those insiders have been buying or selling. General Public OwnershipThe general public-- including retail investors -- own 25% stake in the company, and hence can't easily be ignored. While this size of ownership may not be enough to sway a policy decision in their favour, they can still make a collective impact on company policies.Next Steps:While it is well worth considering the different groups that own a company, there are other factors that are even more important. For example, we've discovered 3 warning signs for Applied Optoelectronics (1 is concerning!) that you should be aware of before investing here.If you would prefer discover what analysts are predicting in terms of future growth, do not miss this free report on analyst forecasts.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team@simplywallst.comView comments