




                                    News
                                  

Chevron icon
It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options.

 
                                    stocks
                                  
 
Stock market today: Indexes pop after Nvidia's blowout earnings report










Max Adams 

                                  2024-05-23T13:38:21Z
                                 



Max Adams




Share icon
An curved arrow pointing right.

 Share





Facebook Icon
The letter F.


Facebook
 



Email icon
An envelope. It indicates the ability to send an email.


Email
 



Twitter icon
A stylized bird with an open mouth, tweeting.


Twitter
 



Link icon
An image of a chain link. It symobilizes a website link url.


Copy Link
 
 



Save Article Icon
A bookmark

 Save





 
                                      Read in app
                                  












Angle down icon
An icon in the shape of an angle pointing down.

 

Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang.
 

                            Sam Yeh/AFP via Getty Images
                              











Stocks jumped Thursday with investors feeling buoyant after Nvidia's big first-quarter earnings report. 
The chip maker beat revenue and profit estimates and announced a 10-for-1 stock split. 
Atlanta Fed President Raphael Bostic will speak later in the on Thursday. 











 


                                    Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview








 















Thanks for signing up!


                              Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go.
                              
                                download the app
                               





Email address





                                      Sign up
                                     



                                  By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. You can opt-out at any time by visiting our Preferences page or by clicking "unsubscribe" at the bottom of the email.
                              








 


Advertisement

US stocks moved higher on Thursday, with investors cheering another blowout earnings report from chip giant Nvidia. The company, whose chips are at the heart of the artificial intelligence boom, beat on both revenue and earnings. It reported $26.04 billion in revenue versus analyst estimates of $24.65 billion, and earnings per share of $6.12, compared to estimates of $5.59. Nvidia also gave strong guidance for the current quarter, pointing to strong demand for its chips even as customers await the debut of its next big GPU, dubbed Blackwell. "The biggest piece of filling in this AI puzzle with all the Street and world watching was hearing from the Godfather of AI Jensen and Nvidia that AI demand is accelerating," Wedbush Securities' Dan Ives said Thursday. 
Advertisement

He added: "Nvidia and Microsoft are the first derivatives of the AI Revolution, with the second/third/fourth derivatives of AI now starting to form in this market which speaks to our 2024/2025 tech bull thesis playing out."Nvidia shares rose 7% in early Thursday trading, hitting new records around $1,017 per share. Also on investors' radars are comments coming later in the day from Atlanta Federal Reserve President Raphael Bostic. Several Fed speakers have offered fresh takes on the economy and inflation this week, with most striking a cautious tone on rate cuts, noting that price increases have yet to cool sufficiently to warrant easing monetary policy. Stocks sank in Wednesday's session after the release of the minutes from the Fed's last policy meeting, which reignited fears among investors that the central bank would stay hawkish. However, some commentators noted that the minutes reflected the Fed's mood before the April inflation report, which contained more encouraging data than previous months.
Advertisement

Here's where US indexes stood shortly after the 9:30 a.m. opening bell on Thursday: S&P 500: 5,331.11, up 0.5%Dow Jones Industrial Average: 39,550.38, down 0.3% (121 points)Nasdaq Composite: 16,969.57, up 1%Here's what else is happening:Apple is a hidden AI play, "The Big Short" investor Steve Eisman says.Germany has too many solar panels and it's hurting energy prices. A majority of Americans polled incorrectly believe the US economy is in a recession. 
Advertisement

In commodities, bonds, and crypto: West Texas Intermediate crude oil was up 0.7% to $78.27 a barrel. Brent crude, the international benchmark, rose 0.8% to $82.62 a barrel. Gold fell 1% to $2,365 per ounce. The 10-year Treasury was flat at 4.435%. Bitcoin dipped 0.5% to $69,271.  

 







 



                                Read next
                              





MI Exclusive
Nvidia stock
nvidia earnings

                        More...
                      


Advertisement



 



 


Close icon
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
                    


 
