Read full articleSimply Wall St.Loews Corporation's (NYSE:L) institutional investors lost 3.9% last week but have benefitted from longer-term gainseditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Fri, May 24, 2024, 7:40 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsGiven the large stake in the stock by institutions, Loews' stock price might be vulnerable to their trading decisionsThe top 11 shareholders own 51% of the company Insiders have been selling lately Every investor in Loews Corporation (NYSE:L) should be aware of the most powerful shareholder groups. With 60% stake, institutions possess the maximum shares in the company. In other words, the group stands to gain the most (or lose the most) from their investment into the company.Institutional investors endured the highest losses after the company's market cap fell by US$673m last week. However, the 31% one-year return to shareholders might have softened the blow. We would assume however, that they would be on the lookout for weakness in the future.In the chart below, we zoom in on the different ownership groups of Loews. Check out our latest analysis for Loews ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Loews?Institutions typically measure themselves against a benchmark when reporting to their own investors, so they often become more enthusiastic about a stock once it's included in a major index. We would expect most companies to have some institutions on the register, especially if they are growing.As you can see, institutional investors have a fair amount of stake in Loews. This can indicate that the company has a certain degree of credibility in the investment community. However, it is best to be wary of relying on the supposed validation that comes with institutional investors. They too, get it wrong sometimes. If multiple institutions change their view on a stock at the same time, you could see the share price drop fast. It's therefore worth looking at Loews' earnings history below. Of course, the future is what really matters.earnings-and-revenue-growthInstitutional investors own over 50% of the company, so together than can probably strongly influence board decisions. Loews is not owned by hedge funds. Looking at our data, we can see that the largest shareholder is The Vanguard Group, Inc. with 9.6% of shares outstanding. The second and third largest shareholders are James Tisch and BlackRock, Inc., with an equal amount of shares to their name at 7.1%. James Tisch, who is the second-largest shareholder, also happens to hold the title of Chief Executive Officer.A closer look at our ownership figures suggests that the top 11 shareholders have a combined ownership of 51% implying that no single shareholder has a majority.While studying institutional ownership for a company can add value to your research, it is also a good practice to research analyst recommendations to get a deeper understand of a stock's expected performance. Our information suggests that there isn't any analyst coverage of the stock, so it is probably little known.Story continuesInsider Ownership Of LoewsWhile the precise definition of an insider can be subjective, almost everyone considers board members to be insiders. The company management answer to the board and the latter should represent the interests of shareholders. Notably, sometimes top-level managers are on the board themselves.Insider ownership is positive when it signals leadership are thinking like the true owners of the company. However, high insider ownership can also give immense power to a small group within the company. This can be negative in some circumstances.Our information suggests that insiders maintain a significant holding in Loews Corporation. It is very interesting to see that insiders have a meaningful US$2.9b stake in this US$17b business. It is good to see this level of investment. You can check here to see if those insiders have been buying recently. General Public OwnershipThe general public-- including retail investors -- own 23% stake in the company, and hence can't easily be ignored. While this size of ownership may not be enough to sway a policy decision in their favour, they can still make a collective impact on company policies.Next Steps:While it is well worth considering the different groups that own a company, there are other factors that are even more important. To that end, you should be aware of the   1 warning sign  we've spotted with Loews .Of course this may not be the best stock to buy. So take a peek at this free free list of interesting companies.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.View comments