Read full articleSimply Wall St.Under Armour, Inc. (NYSE:UAA) is favoured by institutional owners who hold 61% of the companyeditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Mon, May 27, 2024, 8:29 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:   Key InsightsGiven the large stake in the stock by institutions, Under Armour's stock price might be vulnerable to their trading decisionsThe top 7 shareholders own 50% of the company 13% of Under Armour is held by insidersA look at the shareholders of Under Armour, Inc. (NYSE:UAA) can tell us which group is most powerful. We can see that institutions own the lion's share in the company with 61% ownership. In other words, the group stands to gain the most (or lose the most) from their investment into the company.Because institutional owners have a huge pool of resources and liquidity, their investing decisions tend to carry a great deal of weight, especially with individual investors. Hence, having a considerable amount of institutional money invested in a company is often regarded as a desirable trait.Let's delve deeper into each type of owner of Under Armour, beginning with the chart below. Check out our latest analysis for Under Armour ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Under Armour?Institutions typically measure themselves against a benchmark when reporting to their own investors, so they often become more enthusiastic about a stock once it's included in a major index. We would expect most companies to have some institutions on the register, especially if they are growing.We can see that Under Armour does have institutional investors; and they hold a good portion of the company's stock. This implies the analysts working for those institutions have looked at the stock and they like it. But just like anyone else, they could be wrong. It is not uncommon to see a big share price drop if two large institutional investors try to sell out of a stock at the same time. So it is worth checking the past earnings trajectory of Under Armour, (below). Of course, keep in mind that there are other factors to consider, too.earnings-and-revenue-growthInstitutional investors own over 50% of the company, so together than can probably strongly influence board decisions. Under Armour is not owned by hedge funds. BDT Capital Partners, LLC is currently the company's largest shareholder with 12% of shares outstanding. With 12% and 8.7% of the shares outstanding respectively, Kevin Plank and The Vanguard Group, Inc. are the second and third largest shareholders. Kevin Plank, who is the second-largest shareholder, also happens to hold the title of Chief Executive Officer.We did some more digging and found that 7 of the top shareholders account for roughly 50% of the register, implying that along with larger shareholders, there are a few smaller shareholders, thereby balancing out each others interests somewhat.Story continuesWhile studying institutional ownership for a company can add value to your research, it is also a good practice to research analyst recommendations to get a deeper understand of a stock's expected performance. There are plenty of analysts covering the stock, so it might be worth seeing what they are forecasting, too.Insider Ownership Of Under ArmourWhile the precise definition of an insider can be subjective, almost everyone considers board members to be insiders. Management ultimately answers to the board. However, it is not uncommon for managers to be executive board members, especially if they are a founder or the CEO.I generally consider insider ownership to be a good thing. However, on some occasions it makes it more difficult for other shareholders to hold the board accountable for decisions.Our information suggests that insiders maintain a significant holding in Under Armour, Inc.. It is very interesting to see that insiders have a meaningful US$371m stake in this US$2.9b business. Most would say this shows a good degree of alignment with shareholders, especially in a company of this size. You can  click here to see if those insiders have been buying or selling. General Public OwnershipThe general public-- including retail investors -- own 14% stake in the company, and hence can't easily be ignored. While this group can't necessarily call the shots, it can certainly have a real influence on how the company is run.Private Equity OwnershipWith an ownership of 12%, private equity firms are in a position to play a role in shaping corporate strategy with a focus on value creation. Some investors might be encouraged by this, since private equity are sometimes able to encourage strategies that help the market see the value in the company. Alternatively, those holders might be exiting the investment after taking it public.Next Steps:I find it very interesting to look at who exactly owns a company. But to truly gain insight, we need to consider other information, too. For instance, we've identified   1 warning sign for Under Armour  that you should be aware of.If you are like me, you may want to think about whether this company will grow or shrink. Luckily, you can check this free report showing analyst forecasts for its future.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.View comments