




                                    Careers
                                  
 
Corporate America is going through a middle-management meltdown








Dan DeFrancesco 

                                  2024-05-24T12:02:21Z
                                 







Share icon
An curved arrow pointing right.

 Share





Facebook Icon
The letter F.


Facebook
 



Email icon
An envelope. It indicates the ability to send an email.


Email
 



Twitter icon
A stylized bird with an open mouth, tweeting.


Twitter
 



LinkedIn icon


LinkedIn
 



Link icon
An image of a chain link. It symobilizes a website link url.


Copy Link
 





lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.

 
Impact Link

 
 



Save Article Icon
A bookmark

 Save





 
                                      Read in app
                                  












Angle down icon
An icon in the shape of an angle pointing down.

 

The author's boss was toxic.
 
                            Simplehappyart/Getty Images
                          





This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
                      subscribers.
                      Become an Insider
                      and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.






This post originally appeared in the Insider Today newsletter on May 23, 2024.You can sign up for Business Insider's daily newsletter here.










 


                                    Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview








 















Thanks for signing up!


                              Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go.
                              
                                download the app
                               





Email address





                                      Sign up
                                     



                                  By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. You can opt-out at any time by visiting our Preferences page or by clicking "unsubscribe" at the bottom of the email.
                              








 


Advertisement

Hello! Grilling season is here, so take some tips from a chef on the best ways to cook your chicken on the BBQ. And here's a bonus one just for newsletter readers: A little bit of high-quality extra virgin olive oil rubbed on the grill goes a long way.In today's big story, we're looking at the thinning of Corporate America's middle management, which is putting millennials and Gen Z at risk.
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
                            subscribers.
                            Become an Insider
                            and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
What's on deck:Markets: Citi just got a costly lesson in not double-checking your numbers.Tech: TikTok's user base is getting older, and that's good for its business.Business: A new rating system to judge a CEO's effectiveness.
Advertisement

But first, who's your manager?If this was forwarded to you, sign up here.The big storyThe great "unbossing"






                          
                          Brooks Kraft LLC/Corbis via Getty Images
                          
                          

Hate your boss? Don't worry. They might not be around much longer.Middle managers are becoming an endangered species in Corporate America, with some companies viewing the role as obsolete, writes Business Insider's Lindsay Dodgson. Remote work, tech efficiencies, and a general push to cut costs have contributed to middle managers' demise.
Advertisement

The immediate impact is being felt by millennials entering their middle-management era. It's another gut punch for a generation that seems to keep getting the short end of the stick.Having trouble buying a house? Try doing it without a job!But in the long term, the death of middle management will be felt beyond millennials.Gen Zers haven't hid their disdain for middle managers. But successfully canceling their bosses means killing a primary source of mentorship and workplace guidance.
Advertisement

That's a big gamble coming from a generation that needed to take classes on making small talk and writing work emails.






                          
                          iStock; Robyn Phelps/Insider
                          
                          

Middle managers have always been a bit of an easy target.We all know that person — or persons — at work whose job isn't abundantly clear. They seem busy, but you're never sure what they're actually doing. If your company were to make cuts, why not start there?It's a strategy Corporate America, particularly Big Tech, deployed in 2023. The "year of efficiency," as Mark Zuckerberg dubbed it, was all about flattening organizations, and middle managers were the ones getting squished.
Advertisement

But dismissing the much-maligned middle managers as busybodies is misunderstanding their value to a company.A buffer between employees and executives ensures the former meets the latter's expectations. That point is especially relevant when so many things are changing in the workplace, from the departure of boomers and the arrival of Gen Z to navigating return-to-office mandates.The death of middle managers could also fuel the current dismantling of another cohort: the middle class.Eliminating an entire management level means fewer earning opportunities for those looking to climb the economic ladder, which is already becoming increasingly difficult to do.3 things in markets






                          
                          EschCollection/Getty Images
                          
                          

Jeffrey Gundlach believes winter is coming for the US economy. The billionaire investor said interest rates will stay elevated, tanking companies and ultimately leading the economy into a recession. For the record, we're not in a recession, even though most Americans seem to think that's the case.A fat-finger mistake led to a fat fine for Citi. In May 2022, a trader mistakenly tried executing a trade worth $444 billion, sparking a flash crash in European stocks. UK regulators levied a $78 million fine against the bank on Wednesday.Blackstone is about to start granting stock to portfolio companies' employees. The Wall Street Journal reported that the investment firm plans to give equity to workers at most of the large US-based businesses it buys, following in the footsteps of other private equity giants like KKR.3 things in tech






                          
                          Prostock-Studio/Getty Images, Tiktok, Abanti Chowdhury/BI
                          
                          

TikTok has a secret weapon: millennials. The app's millennial viewership is growing faster than its Gen Z audience. If TikTok can survive the US ban, its growing appeal to an older demographic could make it even bigger and more powerful than it already is.Meta is considering paying media publishers for AI training data. Internal discussions are still in the early stages, according to two people familiar with the consideration. If it goes through, Meta would join rivals Google and OpenAI in making deals with publishers for their data.Another win for Nvidia. The tech giant knocked it out of the park again on Wednesday when it posted better-than-expected quarterly sales figures. CEO Jensen Huang also touted strong demand for the firm's Hopper and Blackwell chips.3 things in business






                          
                          Lilit Amirkhanian/Getty, Tyler Le/BI
                          
                          

There's a new way to rate CEOs. Paragon Intel, an alt data company, is rolling out executive ratings, which will show how executives fit into their firms and whether they will drive stock gains.Target is missing the mark.The store's comparable sales have dropped for four straight quarters, and it's pulling out all the stops to avoid a fifth. That includes cutting prices on thousands of items — a move its CEO says will save shoppers millions this summer.Buying a house is getting even more expensive. Median home prices climbed nearly 6% year-over-year to hit a record $407,600 in April, according to a new report from the National Association of Realtors. That's the 10th month in a row that prices have risen.In other newsI'm a financial planner, and my richest clients have the same 5 habits.Humane AI is reportedly looking for a buyer, just weeks after its disastrous wearables launch.An early retiree shares 3 money moves he made to save seven figures, quit work at 48, and still live comfortably: 'You don't have to live on ramen'Apple thinks it's figured out the top 10 albums of all time. That's kicked off debate among music fans.Check out 7 new emojis that could hit your iPhone next year, including a tired face with eyebags and a shovel.Ex-Google CEO Eric Schmidt just gave an unsettling answer about how to handle AI with free will
Advertisement

What's happening todayThe FAA expects today to be the busiest day for air travel since 2019.The Insider Today team: Dan DeFrancesco, deputy editor and anchor, in New York. Jordan Parker Erb, editor, in New York. Hallam Bullock, senior editor, in London. George Glover, reporter, in London.




 






Watch: Marketing leaders from TikTok, Roku, Mastercard and more tell Insider how consumer behavior has changed across industries






Newsletters
Newsletter


Advertisement



 



 


Close icon
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
                    


 
