Read full articleSimply Wall St.Cheniere Energy, Inc. (NYSE:LNG) is favoured by institutional owners who hold 89% of the companyeditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Wed, May 29, 2024, 4:02 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsInstitutions' substantial holdings in Cheniere Energy implies that they have significant influence over the company's share priceThe top 25 shareholders own 49% of the companyOwnership research along with  analyst forecasts data  help provide a good understanding of opportunities in a stockEvery investor in Cheniere Energy, Inc. (NYSE:LNG) should be aware of the most powerful shareholder groups. The group holding the most number of shares in the company, around 89% to be precise, is institutions. That is, the group stands to benefit the most if the stock rises (or lose the most if there is a downturn).Because institutional owners have a huge pool of resources and liquidity, their investing decisions tend to carry a great deal of weight, especially with individual investors. As a result, a sizeable amount of institutional money invested in a firm is generally viewed as a positive attribute.In the chart below, we zoom in on the different ownership groups of Cheniere Energy. View our latest analysis for Cheniere Energy ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Cheniere Energy?Institutional investors commonly compare their own returns to the returns of a commonly followed index. So they generally do consider buying larger companies that are included in the relevant benchmark index.As you can see, institutional investors have a fair amount of stake in Cheniere Energy. This can indicate that the company has a certain degree of credibility in the investment community. However, it is best to be wary of relying on the supposed validation that comes with institutional investors. They too, get it wrong sometimes. It is not uncommon to see a big share price drop if two large institutional investors try to sell out of a stock at the same time. So it is worth checking the past earnings trajectory of Cheniere Energy, (below). Of course, keep in mind that there are other factors to consider, too.earnings-and-revenue-growthInstitutional investors own over 50% of the company, so together than can probably strongly influence board decisions. Hedge funds don't have many shares in Cheniere Energy. The Vanguard Group, Inc. is currently the largest shareholder, with 9.7% of shares outstanding. With 8.1% and 2.8% of the shares outstanding respectively, BlackRock, Inc. and FMR LLC are the second and third largest shareholders.Our studies suggest that the top 25 shareholders collectively control less than half of the company's shares, meaning that the company's shares are widely disseminated and there is no dominant shareholder.Story continuesWhile it makes sense to study institutional ownership data for a company, it also makes sense to study analyst sentiments to know which way the wind is blowing. There are a reasonable number of analysts covering the stock, so it might be useful to find out their aggregate view on the future.Insider Ownership Of Cheniere EnergyThe definition of company insiders can be subjective and does vary between jurisdictions. Our data reflects individual insiders, capturing board members at the very least. The company management answer to the board and the latter should represent the interests of shareholders. Notably, sometimes top-level managers are on the board themselves.I generally consider insider ownership to be a good thing. However, on some occasions it makes it more difficult for other shareholders to hold the board accountable for decisions.Our most recent data indicates that insiders own less than 1% of Cheniere Energy, Inc.. It is a very large company, so it would be surprising to see insiders own a large proportion of the company. Though their holding amounts to less than 1%, we can see that board members collectively own US$232m worth of shares (at current prices). It is good to see board members owning shares, but it might be worth checking if those insiders have been buying. General Public OwnershipWith a 10% ownership, the general public, mostly comprising of individual investors, have some degree of sway over Cheniere Energy. While this size of ownership may not be enough to sway a policy decision in their favour, they can still make a collective impact on company policies.Next Steps:While it is well worth considering the different groups that own a company, there are other factors that are even more important. Case in point: We've spotted   2 warning signs for Cheniere Energy  you should be aware of, and 1 of them is potentially serious.If you are like me, you may want to think about whether this company will grow or shrink. Luckily, you can check this free report showing analyst forecasts for its future.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.View comments