Read full articleSimply Wall St.Public companies account for 53% of Genting Singapore Limited's (SGX:G13) ownership, while individual investors account for 37%editorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Sun, May 26, 2024, 7:55 PM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:   Key InsightsThe considerable ownership by public companies in Genting Singapore indicates that they collectively have a greater say in management and business strategyThe largest shareholder of the company is Genting Berhad with a 53% stakeUsing data from analyst forecasts alongside ownership research, one can better assess the future performance of a companyTo get a sense of who is truly in control of Genting Singapore Limited (SGX:G13), it is important to understand the ownership structure of the business. The group holding the most number of shares in the company, around 53% to be precise, is public companies. Put another way, the group faces the maximum upside potential (or downside risk).And individual investors on the other hand have a 37% ownership in the company.Let's take a closer look to see what the different types of shareholders can tell us about Genting Singapore. See our latest analysis for Genting Singapore ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Genting Singapore?Institutions typically measure themselves against a benchmark when reporting to their own investors, so they often become more enthusiastic about a stock once it's included in a major index. We would expect most companies to have some institutions on the register, especially if they are growing.As you can see, institutional investors have a fair amount of stake in Genting Singapore. This suggests some credibility amongst professional investors. But we can't rely on that fact alone since institutions make bad investments sometimes, just like everyone does. It is not uncommon to see a big share price drop if two large institutional investors try to sell out of a stock at the same time. So it is worth checking the past earnings trajectory of Genting Singapore, (below). Of course, keep in mind that there are other factors to consider, too.earnings-and-revenue-growthWe note that hedge funds don't have a meaningful investment in Genting Singapore. Our data shows that Genting Berhad is the largest shareholder with 53% of shares outstanding. This essentially means that they have extensive influence, if not outright control, over the future of the corporation. With 1.9% and 1.6% of the shares outstanding respectively, The Vanguard Group, Inc. and BlackRock, Inc. are the second and third largest shareholders.While it makes sense to study institutional ownership data for a company, it also makes sense to study analyst sentiments to know which way the wind is blowing. There are plenty of analysts covering the stock, so it might be worth seeing what they are forecasting, too.Story continuesInsider Ownership Of Genting SingaporeWhile the precise definition of an insider can be subjective, almost everyone considers board members to be insiders. Company management run the business, but the CEO will answer to the board, even if he or she is a member of it.Insider ownership is positive when it signals leadership are thinking like the true owners of the company. However, high insider ownership can also give immense power to a small group within the company. This can be negative in some circumstances.Our most recent data indicates that insiders own less than 1% of Genting Singapore Limited. Being so large, we would not expect insiders to own a large proportion of the stock. Collectively, they own S$45m of stock. Arguably recent buying and selling is just as important to consider. You can  click here to see if insiders have been buying or selling. General Public OwnershipWith a 37% ownership, the general public, mostly comprising of individual investors, have some degree of sway over Genting Singapore. While this group can't necessarily call the shots, it can certainly have a real influence on how the company is run.Public Company OwnershipPublic companies currently own 53% of Genting Singapore stock. It's hard to say for sure but this suggests they have entwined business interests. This might be a strategic stake, so it's worth watching this space for changes in ownership.Next Steps:While it is well worth considering the different groups that own a company, there are other factors that are even more important. Case in point: We've spotted   1 warning sign for Genting Singapore  you should be aware of.If you are like me, you may want to think about whether this company will grow or shrink. Luckily, you can check this free report showing analyst forecasts for its future.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.View comments