Read full articleSimply Wall St.Growthpoint Properties Australia (ASX:GOZ) is a favorite amongst institutional investors who own 72%editorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Wed, May 29, 2024, 5:03 PM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsInstitutions' substantial holdings in Growthpoint Properties Australia implies that they have significant influence over the company's share price64% of the company is held by a single shareholder (Growthpoint Properties Limited) Insiders have been buying lately A look at the shareholders of Growthpoint Properties Australia (ASX:GOZ) can tell us which group is most powerful. The group holding the most number of shares in the company, around 72% to be precise, is institutions. In other words, the group stands to gain the most (or lose the most) from their investment into the company.Given the vast amount of money and research capacities at their disposal, institutional ownership tends to carry a lot of weight, especially with individual investors. Hence, having a considerable amount of institutional money invested in a company is often regarded as a desirable trait.Let's delve deeper into each type of owner of Growthpoint Properties Australia, beginning with the chart below. View our latest analysis for Growthpoint Properties Australia ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Growthpoint Properties Australia?Institutions typically measure themselves against a benchmark when reporting to their own investors, so they often become more enthusiastic about a stock once it's included in a major index. We would expect most companies to have some institutions on the register, especially if they are growing.Growthpoint Properties Australia already has institutions on the share registry. Indeed, they own a respectable stake in the company. This implies the analysts working for those institutions have looked at the stock and they like it. But just like anyone else, they could be wrong. If multiple institutions change their view on a stock at the same time, you could see the share price drop fast. It's therefore worth looking at Growthpoint Properties Australia's earnings history below. Of course, the future is what really matters.earnings-and-revenue-growthInvestors should note that institutions actually own more than half the company, so they can collectively wield significant power. Hedge funds don't have many shares in Growthpoint Properties Australia. The company's largest shareholder is Growthpoint Properties Limited, with ownership of 64%. This essentially means that they have extensive influence, if not outright control, over the future of the corporation. With 2.5% and 1.0% of the shares outstanding respectively, The Vanguard Group, Inc. and BlackRock, Inc. are the second and third largest shareholders.Story continuesResearching institutional ownership is a good way to gauge and filter a stock's expected performance. The same can be achieved by studying analyst sentiments. Quite a few analysts cover the stock, so you could look into forecast growth quite easily.Insider Ownership Of Growthpoint Properties AustraliaThe definition of an insider can differ slightly between different countries, but members of the board of directors always count. The company management answer to the board and the latter should represent the interests of shareholders. Notably, sometimes top-level managers are on the board themselves.Most consider insider ownership a positive because it can indicate the board is well aligned with other shareholders. However, on some occasions too much power is concentrated within this group.Our data suggests that insiders own under 1% of Growthpoint Properties Australia in their own names. It is a pretty big company, so it would be possible for board members to own a meaningful interest in the company, without owning much of a proportional interest. In this case, they own around AU$15m worth of shares (at current prices). Arguably, recent buying and selling is just as important to consider. You can  click here to see if insiders have been buying or selling. General Public OwnershipThe general public-- including retail investors -- own 26% stake in the company, and hence can't easily be ignored. This size of ownership, while considerable, may not be enough to change company policy if the decision is not in sync with other large shareholders.Next Steps:I find it very interesting to look at who exactly owns a company. But to truly gain insight, we need to consider other information, too. To that end, you should learn about the   2 warning signs  we've spotted with Growthpoint Properties Australia (including 1 which can't be ignored) .If you are like me, you may want to think about whether this company will grow or shrink. Luckily, you can check this free report showing analyst forecasts for its future.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.View comments