Read full articleSimply Wall St.Great week for Archer-Daniels-Midland Company (NYSE:ADM) institutional investors after losing 11% over the previous yeareditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Sat, Jun 1, 2024, 6:02 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsSignificantly high institutional ownership implies Archer-Daniels-Midland's stock price is sensitive to their trading actionsThe top 12 shareholders own 50% of the company Recent sales by insiders Every investor in Archer-Daniels-Midland Company (NYSE:ADM) should be aware of the most powerful shareholder groups. And the group that holds the biggest piece of the pie are institutions with 81% ownership. Put another way, the group faces the maximum upside potential (or downside risk).Institutional investors would probably welcome last week's 3.2% increase in the share price after a year of 11% losses as a sign that returns may to begin trending higher.In the chart below, we zoom in on the different ownership groups of Archer-Daniels-Midland. See our latest analysis for Archer-Daniels-Midland ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Archer-Daniels-Midland?Many institutions measure their performance against an index that approximates the local market. So they usually pay more attention to companies that are included in major indices.As you can see, institutional investors have a fair amount of stake in Archer-Daniels-Midland. This suggests some credibility amongst professional investors. But we can't rely on that fact alone since institutions make bad investments sometimes, just like everyone does. When multiple institutions own a stock, there's always a risk that they are in a 'crowded trade'. When such a trade goes wrong, multiple parties may compete to sell stock fast. This risk is higher in a company without a history of growth. You can see Archer-Daniels-Midland's historic earnings and revenue below, but keep in mind there's always more to the story.earnings-and-revenue-growthInvestors should note that institutions actually own more than half the company, so they can collectively wield significant power. Hedge funds don't have many shares in Archer-Daniels-Midland. Our data shows that The Vanguard Group, Inc. is the largest shareholder with 14% of shares outstanding. In comparison, the second and third largest shareholders hold about 10% and 7.9% of the stock.After doing some more digging, we found that the top 12 have the combined ownership of 50% in the company, suggesting that no single shareholder has significant control over the company.Researching institutional ownership is a good way to gauge and filter a stock's expected performance. The same can be achieved by studying analyst sentiments. There are plenty of analysts covering the stock, so it might be worth seeing what they are forecasting, too.Story continuesInsider Ownership Of Archer-Daniels-MidlandThe definition of company insiders can be subjective and does vary between jurisdictions. Our data reflects individual insiders, capturing board members at the very least. Company management run the business, but the CEO will answer to the board, even if he or she is a member of it.Most consider insider ownership a positive because it can indicate the board is well aligned with other shareholders. However, on some occasions too much power is concentrated within this group.Our most recent data indicates that insiders own less than 1% of Archer-Daniels-Midland Company. Being so large, we would not expect insiders to own a large proportion of the stock. Collectively, they own US$203m of stock. Arguably recent buying and selling is just as important to consider. You can  click here to see if insiders have been buying or selling. General Public OwnershipWith a 18% ownership, the general public, mostly comprising of individual investors, have some degree of sway over Archer-Daniels-Midland. While this size of ownership may not be enough to sway a policy decision in their favour, they can still make a collective impact on company policies.Next Steps:I find it very interesting to look at who exactly owns a company. But to truly gain insight, we need to consider other information, too. For example, we've discovered 1 warning sign for Archer-Daniels-Midland that you should be aware of before investing here.If you would prefer discover what analysts are predicting in terms of future growth, do not miss this free report on analyst forecasts.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.View comments