Read full articleSimply Wall St.KKR Real Estate Finance Trust Inc. (NYSE:KREF) is favoured by institutional owners who hold 58% of the companyeditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Sun, Jun 2, 2024, 5:46 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:   Key InsightsSignificantly high institutional ownership implies KKR Real Estate Finance Trust's stock price is sensitive to their trading actionsThe top 7 shareholders own 51% of the companyOwnership research along with  analyst forecasts data  help provide a good understanding of opportunities in a stockA look at the shareholders of KKR Real Estate Finance Trust Inc. (NYSE:KREF) can tell us which group is most powerful. With 58% stake, institutions possess the maximum shares in the company. In other words, the group stands to gain the most (or lose the most) from their investment into the company.Since institutional have access to huge amounts of capital, their market moves tend to receive a lot of scrutiny by retail or individual investors. Hence, having a considerable amount of institutional money invested in a company is often regarded as a desirable trait.Let's take a closer look to see what the different types of shareholders can tell us about KKR Real Estate Finance Trust. See our latest analysis for KKR Real Estate Finance Trust ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About KKR Real Estate Finance Trust?Many institutions measure their performance against an index that approximates the local market. So they usually pay more attention to companies that are included in major indices.We can see that KKR Real Estate Finance Trust does have institutional investors; and they hold a good portion of the company's stock. This implies the analysts working for those institutions have looked at the stock and they like it. But just like anyone else, they could be wrong. If multiple institutions change their view on a stock at the same time, you could see the share price drop fast. It's therefore worth looking at KKR Real Estate Finance Trust's earnings history below. Of course, the future is what really matters.earnings-and-revenue-growthInstitutional investors own over 50% of the company, so together than can probably strongly influence board decisions. KKR Real Estate Finance Trust is not owned by hedge funds. Our data shows that BlackRock, Inc. is the largest shareholder with 15% of shares outstanding. KKR & Co. Inc. is the second largest shareholder owning 14% of common stock, and The Vanguard Group, Inc. holds about 8.3% of the company stock.We did some more digging and found that 7 of the top shareholders account for roughly 51% of the register, implying that along with larger shareholders, there are a few smaller shareholders, thereby balancing out each others interests somewhat.Researching institutional ownership is a good way to gauge and filter a stock's expected performance. The same can be achieved by studying analyst sentiments. There are plenty of analysts covering the stock, so it might be worth seeing what they are forecasting, too.Story continuesInsider Ownership Of KKR Real Estate Finance TrustWhile the precise definition of an insider can be subjective, almost everyone considers board members to be insiders. The company management answer to the board and the latter should represent the interests of shareholders. Notably, sometimes top-level managers are on the board themselves.Insider ownership is positive when it signals leadership are thinking like the true owners of the company. However, high insider ownership can also give immense power to a small group within the company. This can be negative in some circumstances.Shareholders would probably be interested to learn that insiders own shares in KKR Real Estate Finance Trust Inc.. In their own names, insiders own US$9.7m worth of stock in the US$656m company. It is good to see some investment by insiders, but it might be worth checking if those insiders have been buying. General Public OwnershipThe general public-- including retail investors -- own 26% stake in the company, and hence can't easily be ignored. This size of ownership, while considerable, may not be enough to change company policy if the decision is not in sync with other large shareholders.Private Equity OwnershipPrivate equity firms hold a 14% stake in KKR Real Estate Finance Trust. This suggests they can be influential in key policy decisions. Sometimes we see private equity stick around for the long term, but generally speaking they have a shorter investment horizon and -- as the name suggests -- don't invest in public companies much. After some time they may look to sell and redeploy capital elsewhere.Next Steps:I find it very interesting to look at who exactly owns a company. But to truly gain insight, we need to consider other information, too. For instance, we've identified   2 warning signs for KKR Real Estate Finance Trust (1 is significant)  that you should be aware of.If you would prefer discover what analysts are predicting in terms of future growth, do not miss this free report on analyst forecasts.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.View comments