Read full articleSimply Wall St.Corning Incorporated's (NYSE:GLW) large institutional owners must be happy as stock continues to impress, up 4.2% over the past weekeditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Thu, May 23, 2024, 8:30 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsInstitutions' substantial holdings in Corning implies that they have significant influence over the company's share priceA total of 15 investors have a majority stake in the company with 51% ownership Insiders have been selling lately To get a sense of who is truly in control of Corning Incorporated (NYSE:GLW), it is important to understand the ownership structure of the business. The group holding the most number of shares in the company, around 72% to be precise, is institutions. In other words, the group stands to gain the most (or lose the most) from their investment into the company.Last week’s 4.2% gain means that institutional investors were on the positive end of the spectrum even as the company has shown strong longer-term trends. The one-year return on investment is currently 20% and last week's gain would have been more than welcomed.In the chart below, we zoom in on the different ownership groups of Corning. View our latest analysis for Corning ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Corning?Institutional investors commonly compare their own returns to the returns of a commonly followed index. So they generally do consider buying larger companies that are included in the relevant benchmark index.Corning already has institutions on the share registry. Indeed, they own a respectable stake in the company. This can indicate that the company has a certain degree of credibility in the investment community. However, it is best to be wary of relying on the supposed validation that comes with institutional investors. They too, get it wrong sometimes. It is not uncommon to see a big share price drop if two large institutional investors try to sell out of a stock at the same time. So it is worth checking the past earnings trajectory of Corning, (below). Of course, keep in mind that there are other factors to consider, too.earnings-and-revenue-growthInvestors should note that institutions actually own more than half the company, so they can collectively wield significant power. Hedge funds don't have many shares in Corning. The Vanguard Group, Inc. is currently the company's largest shareholder with 11% of shares outstanding. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is the second largest shareholder owning 9.3% of common stock, and BlackRock, Inc. holds about 7.0% of the company stock.After doing some more digging, we found that the top 15 have the combined ownership of 51% in the company, suggesting that no single shareholder has significant control over the company.While studying institutional ownership for a company can add value to your research, it is also a good practice to research analyst recommendations to get a deeper understand of a stock's expected performance. Quite a few analysts cover the stock, so you could look into forecast growth quite easily.Story continuesInsider Ownership Of CorningWhile the precise definition of an insider can be subjective, almost everyone considers board members to be insiders. Company management run the business, but the CEO will answer to the board, even if he or she is a member of it.I generally consider insider ownership to be a good thing. However, on some occasions it makes it more difficult for other shareholders to hold the board accountable for decisions.Our data suggests that insiders own under 1% of Corning Incorporated in their own names. Being so large, we would not expect insiders to own a large proportion of the stock. Collectively, they own US$104m of stock. It is always good to see at least some insider ownership, but it might be worth checking if those insiders have been selling. General Public OwnershipThe general public, who are usually individual investors, hold a 19% stake in Corning. While this size of ownership may not be enough to sway a policy decision in their favour, they can still make a collective impact on company policies.Public Company OwnershipPublic companies currently own 9.3% of Corning stock. This may be a strategic interest and the two companies may have related business interests. It could be that they have de-merged. This holding is probably worth investigating further.Next Steps:While it is well worth considering the different groups that own a company, there are other factors that are even more important. For instance, we've identified   4 warning signs for Corning (1 is a bit concerning)  that you should be aware of.But ultimately  it is the future, not the past, that will determine how well the owners of this business will do. Therefore we think it advisable to take a look at this free report showing whether analysts are predicting a brighter future.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.View comments