Edit StoryForbesMoneyWhat’s Next For AI Investing: Taking Cues From Nvidia’s Earnings, Stock SplitSasirekha SubramanianContributorInvestor HubContributor GroupOpinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.FollowingMay 29, 2024,10:00am EDTUpdated May 29, 2024, 10:01am EDTShare to FacebookShare to TwitterShare to LinkedinFuture Publishing via Getty Images
Nvidia’s (NVDA) stock is holding its ground above $1,000, after the artificial intelligence (AI) bellwether reported yet another blowout quarter, set the stage for record future performance with a solid second-quarter outlook and announced a 10-for-1 stock split. Nvidia’s blockbuster earnings report clearly signals that the AI spending boom shows no signs of abatement. Even as Nvidia continues its meteoric rise pushing the boundaries, the stock is not the sole beneficiary of the AI growth narrative. The entire AI stock universe is firing on all cylinders, outperforming the U.S. and global indexes by more than 30% since the start of 2023. Although the outsized rally reminds investors of the dotcom bubble of the late 1990s (which burst in March 2000), the current valuations of AI leaders are far more reasonable and based on solid earnings growth expectations, unlike the stretched valuations and speculation-led investing frenzy that characterized the tech bubble era. On the other hand, is this truly the beginning of an AI-inspired “next industrial revolution” as extolled by CEO Jensen Huang? The article examines for clues in Nvidia’s first quarter earnings report.


Nvidia’s Role In The AI Industry 
With a $2.77 trillion valuation, Nvidia is the third most valuable company in the U.S. trailing Microsoft and Apple. Originally popular for its chips used in video games, NVDA exploded to prominence after a pivot to the data center business in the last few years and the emergence of ChatGPT, which highlighted the huge potential of generative AI.

Nvidia designs high-performance chips called graphics processing units (GPUs) or accelerators to run large computers that process data and power generative AI. While Nvidia has a near monopoly on AI chips with a market share exceeding 90%, its true competitive advantage stems from the proprietary CUDA software stack that has been optimized for wide ranging AP applications and workloads.

CUDA’s centrality to Nvidia cannot be overstated. For reference, AMD’s flagship AI accelerators–the Instinct MI300 lineup to accelerate AI in the data center market is pitted directly against Nvidia’s H100 and H200 GPUs. Reportedly, an Instinct MI300X GPU sells for approximately $15,000, while Nvidia’s H100 AI GPUs cost between $30,000 and $40,000. However, Nvidia’s GPUs are still in overwhelming demand because of CUDA. AMD is taking aim at NVDA’s dominance, by leveraging its open-source ROCm framework that competes directly with the de-facto CUDA standard. But NVIDIA
DIA
 is fighting back with its relentless innovation that makes it difficult for developers to migrate away from CUDA.

Intel is playing catchup with its new Gaudi 3 chip, which will compete with Nvidia's prior generation H100 processor. Intel claims that the new Gaudi 3 accelerator delivers "50% on average better inference and 40% on average better power efficiency" vs. Nvidia’s H100 at "a fraction of the cost.” The company’s large customers Meta, Microsoft and Google also have their own in-house AI chips.
Even as the battle for AI chip supremacy heats up, dethroning Nvidia will be a herculean challenge for competition, which at best can position itself as a viable alternative and collectively claim 10% to 12% of market share.

Bearing testimony to this, Nvidia reported record first-quarter data center revenue of $22.6 billion (representing about 87% of total revenues), up 23% sequentially and up 427% year over year, thanks to continued strong demand for the Nvidia Hopper GPU computing platform, with large cloud providers (including Amazon, Microsoft, Google and Oracle) contributing mid-40s percentage of data center revenue. Other than large cloud providers, data center startups like CoreWeave, buy Nvidia’s GPUs and rent these to customers on an hourly basis.
Probably in a bid to neutralize the cost advantage touted by competition, Nvidia signaled solid returns on investment (ROI) of 5x to 7x for customers spending on Nvidia infrastructure. For every $1 spent on Nvidia AI infrastructure, cloud providers have an opportunity to earn $5 in GPU instant hosting revenue over four years, the company said in its earnings conference call. The returns get even better with the company’s recent H200 hardware–an investment of $1 by an API provider in NVIDIA’s HDX H200 powering Meta Platforms’ Llama 3 AI Large Language model (LLM) can return $7 in revenues over the next four years.
The brain trust at Forbes has run the numbers, conducted the research, and done the analysis to come up with some of the best places for you to make money in 2024. Download Forbes' most popular report, 12 Stocks To Buy Now.
Nvidia’s Recent Earnings Report 
Profit: Net income for the quarter was $14.88 billion, or $5.98 per share, vs. year-ago $2.04 billion, or 82 cents. Adjusted earnings of $6.12 per share topped the $5.59 per share consensus. Nvidia beat EPS estimates in the last four quarters.
Revenue: Nvidia posted record first-quarter revenue of $26 billion, up 18% sequentially and up 262% year over year, and well above its guidance of $24 billion and ahead of the consensus estimate of $24.65 billion. Nvidia has topped revenue estimates in the last four quarters. For the second quarter, Nvidia targets a new all-time high revenue of $28 billion, plus or minus 2%. Analysts expect $26.6 billion in sales.
Key Takeaways From Nvidia’s Earnings Call
No demand slowdown on Blackwell transition
Nvidia deflated concerns of any demand slowdown as it transitions from its current Hopper AI platform to the more advanced next generation Blackwell system. Blackwell has an inference capability that is 30x of Hopper’s, while consuming 25x less cost and energy. So, the analysts were worried if customers would hold off on Hopper orders because of the upcoming Blackwell launch. However, Nvidia said it witnessed increasing demand for Hopper through the quarter (which is after it announced Blackwell) and expects demand to outstrip supply for some time as the transition happens. Besides, Blackwell systems are designed to be backward-compatible, making the transition easy for customers. The demand for both Hopper and Blackwell platforms is well ahead of supply and expected to continue well into the next year.
Blackwell To Bring In More Growth
The Blackwell platform is in full production with shipments slated to begin in the second quarter, and ramp in the third quarter with data centers standing up for customers in the fourth quarter. Nvidia expects to see a lot of Blackwell revenues this year.
Customers Should “Performance Average” As Nvidia Accelerates To A New “One-Year Rhythm”
Nvidia’s founder and CEO Jensen Huang said that there is another chip in the cards after Blackwell and Nvidia is on a new “one-year rhythm” to release new chip architecture, which marks a significant acceleration from its two-year cycle.
Huang signaled that staying ahead in the AI race was a strategic imperative rather than aiming for merely incremental improvements. He stated, “do you want to be repeatedly the company delivering groundbreaking AI or the company delivering 0.3% better? And that's the reason why this race, as in all technology races, the race is so important.”
In a question to how customers who have spent billions of dollars on existing products would respond to the evolving landscape of newer offerings that quickly surpass the capabilities of existing ones and outpace the rate at which the value of the existing products depreciates, Huang suggested that performance-averaging will be the smart way for businesses to deal with “a whole bunch of chips coming at them” when making and saving money are immediate priorities and time is of essence.
Is Nvidia’s Stock A Buy Ahead Of Its 10-For-1 Stock Split?
Nvidia’s 10-for-1 stock split would render its shares more accessible to a broader investor community, including the company’s employees. Shareholders of Nvidia’s common stock as of the close of market on June 6, will receive nine additional shares for each share owned. The additional shares will be distributed after the close of market on June 7 and trading will commence on a split-adjusted basis at market open on June 10.
With the stock split, NVDA may be targeting an inclusion in the prestigious Dow 30 index, following Amazon’s lead. The Dow 30 index is price-weighted, meaning stocks with higher prices have a greater influence on the index. So, the Dow 30 does not typically include very high-priced stocks, as price changes in these stocks could skew the index and render it a less reliable gauge of overall market performance.
The AI leader also raised its dividend by 150% to 10 cents from 4 cents. The new dividend of $0.01 on a post-split basis will be paid on June 28 to all shareholders of record on June 11. Nvidia stock goes ex-dividend on June 10 when it commences its split-adjusted trading. So, the possibility of a stock rally until the ex-dividend date is likely. A stock split only changes the stock price and the share count, but does not affect the total value of the investor’s holdings. So, for investors interested in the dividend and the Nvidia growth story, NVDA offers a buying opportunity ahead of the stock split.
Analysts And Market Reaction To Earnings
Overall, the median price target for Nvidia on Wall Street rose around $150 to $1,250, after Nvidia posted stellar first-quarter earnings.
Cantor Fitzgerald analyst C.J. Muse, who rates the Nvidia stock at “overweight,” raised his price target on the stock by $200 to $1,400, based on Blackwell being on track for revenues in the second half and the clear line of sight for sequential revenue growth through the October/January quarters.
Morgan Stanley analyst Joseph Moore, affirmed his buy rating on Nvidia and raised the price target from $1,000 to $1,160, citing the company’s strong growth even through product transition. He noted that Nvidia was the clearest way to get exposure to the AI sector.
Bank of America analyst Vivek Arya, who has a Buy rating on Nvidia, raised the price target from $1,100 to $1,320. He noted that Nvidia generates more than 50 cents in free cash flow for every dollar in sales, allowing for potentially higher shareholder returns.
Stop chasing shadows in the market. Forbes' expert analysts have pinpointed the 12 superstars poised to ignite returns in 2024. Don't miss out—download 12 Stocks To Buy Now and claim your front-row seat to the coming boom.
Nvidia And The Outlook For Artificial Intelligence 
Nvidia’s Impact On The AI Industry’s Outlook
Nvidia founder and CEO Jensen Huang is upbeat about the prospects for AI, and the role of Nvidia in the long runway for AI growth, as the computing paradigm shifts from “instruction-driven software to intention-understanding models.”
“The next industrial revolution has begun—companies and countries are partnering with Nvidia to shift the trillion-dollar installed base of traditional data centers to accelerated computing and build a new type of data center —AI factories—to produce a new commodity: artificial intelligence," said Jensen Huang. "AI will bring significant productivity gains to nearly every industry and help companies be more cost- and energy-efficient while expanding revenue opportunities." His comments are somewhat in line with expert estimates for AI spending to rise to $1 trillion between 2023 and 2030.
The next phase of the AI growth story will go beyond the cloud, according to Huang. Generative AI will expand well beyond cloud service platforms to multiple multibillion-dollar verticals, including consumer Internet companies, and enterprise, Sovereign AI, automotive and healthcare customers.
With the rise in global data flows, Sovereign AI is becoming a critical consideration for nations. Sovereign AI refers to a nation's capabilities to produce artificial intelligence using its own infrastructure, data, workforce and business networks to navigate the complex landscape of data privacy and security. Nations procure and operate Sovereign AI clouds in collaboration with state-owned telecommunication providers or utilities–or rely on local cloud partners to provide a shared AI computing platform for public and private sector use.
Nvidia expects its Sovereign AI revenue to approach the high single-digit billions this year, from nothing last year, by helping jumpstart the AI ambitions of nations across the world.
The company expects automotive to be its largest enterprise vertical within the data center segment this year, driving a multibillion revenue opportunity across on-prem and cloud consumption. For the first quarter, Nvidia’s automotive revenue was $329 million, up 17% sequentially and up 11% year over year. The sequential growth was driven by the ramp of AI cockpit solutions with global OEM customers and strength in self-driving platforms.
Tesla’s latest autonomous driving software FSD (full self-driving) system version 12 is powered by Nvidia’s chips. As the FSD-12 technology uses video learning and generative AI to predict the path and drive the car, it needs to process huge amounts of video data. As part of this initiative, Nvidia supported Tesla's expansion of its FSD training AI cluster to 35,000 Hopper H100 GPUs.
Xiaomi’s first electric vehicle, the SU7 sedan is built on the Nvidia Drive Orin, which is the company’s AI car computer for software-defined autonomous vehicle fleets. Nvidia Drive Thor, the successor to Orin, has already procured design wins with EV makers, including BYD, XPeng, GAC's Aion Hyper and Neuro. Thor is slated for production in vehicles in 2025.
Strong and accelerating demand for generative AI training and inference should propel data center growth. Training should continue to scale as AI models learn to be multimodal, understanding text, speech, images, video and 3D and learn to reason and plan. Nvidia’s Hopper platform continues to drive exemplary data center growth for the company. The incredible complexity of growing inference workloads, powered about 40% of Nvidia’s data center revenues in the trailing four quarters.
The next generation Blackwell platform, which enables real-time generative AI on trillion-parameter large language models, is in full production.
In the first quarter, Nvidia started shipping its new Spectrum-X Ethernet networking solution that enables Ethernet-only data centers to accommodate large-scale AI. Spectrum-X is ramping in volume with multiple customers, and should ramp to a multibillion-dollar product line within a year.
Nvidia Inference Microservices (NIM) is the new software offering that delivers enterprise-grade optimized generative AI to run on CUDA everywhere, from the cloud to on-prem data centers to RTX AI PCs.
With all the advantages mentioned above, Nvidia seems poised for the next wave of AI growth.
Investor Sentiment Towards AI
Investor sentiment appears positive towards Nvidia, AI and AI-related stocks. In the past month, NVDA shares have gained about 32% and the Global X Artificial Intelligence & Technology ETF (exchange traded fund) that tracks the performance of the Artificial Intelligence and Big Data Index, by using full replication technique, is up slightly more than 6%. It should be noted that the Artificial Intelligence and Big Data Index, which holds 85 AI-related stocks, outperformed both the S&P 500 and the MSCI World indexes (designed to track broad global equity-market performance) by more than 30% since the beginning of 2023.
Beyond Nvidia, What's Next In AI Investing?
Goldman Sachs says that investors are already looking beyond Nvidia, at IT services and software stocks that build generative AI advancements into their product offerings. The next phase of growth should come from AI infrastructure companies, positioned to benefit from the buildout of AI-related infrastructure. This includes semiconductor companies, cloud providers, computer/network equipment makers, data center real estate investment trusts (REITs), utilities, and cyber security providers.
Overall AI Challenges Ahead
Less availability or lack of high-quality data to train an AI model, and the high cost of developing and implementing AI solutions appear to be major roadblocks for AI. For Nvidia particularly, its major clients turning into competitors poses the biggest challenge besides the high price of its GPUs vs. competition.
Bottom Line
Nvidia appears well poised to ride the next wave of AI growth with relentless product innovation and new business verticals. Investors interested in Nvidia’s dividend can consider buying shares before the stock splits. As to what’s next in AI investing, a good watch point would be AI infrastructure companies, positioned to benefit from the buildout of AI-related infrastructure. This includes semiconductor companies, cloud providers, computer/network equipment makers, data center real estate investment trusts (REITs), utilities, and cyber security providers. Any slowdown in demand for its AI chips or a drop in AI spending by the big tech will be red flags to watch out for in NVIDIA’s future earnings reports.Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)How does Nvidia’s performance impact the AI industry? Nvidia’s performance is widely interpreted as the barometer of the nascent AI economy, as the computing paradigm shifts from instruction-driven software to intention-understanding AI models.What key factors should investors consider regarding Nvidia’s earnings reports?Investors should look for clues of any slowdown in AI spending by the large-cap technology sector that drives more than 40% of Nvidia’s data center revenues. A drop in demand for the company’s AI chips is another critical watchpoint. What is investor sentiment towards Nvidia and the AI industry?Investor sentiment appears positive towards Nvidia and AI-related stocks. In the past month, NVDA shares have gained about 32% and the Global X Artificial Intelligence & Technology ETF, which tracks the performance of the Artificial Intelligence and Big Data Index, is up slightly more than 6%.
Read Next


Missed Nvidia’s Stock Price Rally? Check Out These 7 AI Stocks Instead
7 Best AI ETFs To Buy Now
4 Best IShares ETFs For Retirement Investing


The brain trust at Forbes has run the numbers, conducted the research, and done the analysis to come up with some of the best places for you to make money in 2024. Download Forbes' most popular report, 12 Stocks To Buy Now.
Follow me on LinkedIn. Sasirekha SubramanianFollowingEditorial StandardsPrintReprints & PermissionsJoin The ConversationComments One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts. Read our community guidelines  here.Forbes Community GuidelinesOur community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space.In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil.Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain:False or intentionally out-of-context or misleading informationSpamInsults, profanity, incoherent, obscene or inflammatory language or threats of any kindAttacks on the identity of other commenters or the article's authorContent that otherwise violates our site's terms.User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in:Continuous attempts to re-post comments that have been previously moderated/rejectedRacist, sexist, homophobic or other discriminatory commentsAttempts or tactics that put the site security at riskActions that otherwise violate our site's terms.So, how can you be a power user?Stay on topic and share your insightsFeel free to be clear and thoughtful to get your point across‘Like’ or ‘Dislike’ to show your point of view.Protect your community.Use the report tool to alert us when someone breaks the rules.Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.