Read full articleSimply Wall St.With 87% institutional ownership, AECOM (NYSE:ACM) is a favorite amongst the big gunseditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Sun, Jun 16, 2024, 5:39 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsGiven the large stake in the stock by institutions, AECOM's stock price might be vulnerable to their trading decisionsThe top 11 shareholders own 50% of the company Insiders have sold recently Every investor in AECOM (NYSE:ACM) should be aware of the most powerful shareholder groups. And the group that holds the biggest piece of the pie are institutions with 87% ownership. That is, the group stands to benefit the most if the stock rises (or lose the most if there is a downturn).Since institutional have access to huge amounts of capital, their market moves tend to receive a lot of scrutiny by retail or individual investors. Therefore, a good portion of institutional money invested in the company is usually a huge vote of confidence on its future.Let's take a closer look to see what the different types of shareholders can tell us about AECOM. View our latest analysis for AECOM ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About AECOM?Institutional investors commonly compare their own returns to the returns of a commonly followed index. So they generally do consider buying larger companies that are included in the relevant benchmark index.AECOM already has institutions on the share registry. Indeed, they own a respectable stake in the company. This can indicate that the company has a certain degree of credibility in the investment community. However, it is best to be wary of relying on the supposed validation that comes with institutional investors. They too, get it wrong sometimes. If multiple institutions change their view on a stock at the same time, you could see the share price drop fast. It's therefore worth looking at AECOM's earnings history below. Of course, the future is what really matters.earnings-and-revenue-growthInstitutional investors own over 50% of the company, so together than can probably strongly influence board decisions. Hedge funds don't have many shares in AECOM. BlackRock, Inc. is currently the company's largest shareholder with 13% of shares outstanding. With 9.9% and 9.7% of the shares outstanding respectively, PRIMECAP Management Company and The Vanguard Group, Inc. are the second and third largest shareholders.Looking at the shareholder registry, we can see that 50% of the ownership is controlled by the top 11 shareholders, meaning that no single shareholder has a majority interest in the ownership.While it makes sense to study institutional ownership data for a company, it also makes sense to study analyst sentiments to know which way the wind is blowing. Quite a few analysts cover the stock, so you could look into forecast growth quite easily.Story continuesInsider Ownership Of AECOMThe definition of company insiders can be subjective and does vary between jurisdictions. Our data reflects individual insiders, capturing board members at the very least. Management ultimately answers to the board. However, it is not uncommon for managers to be executive board members, especially if they are a founder or the CEO.I generally consider insider ownership to be a good thing. However, on some occasions it makes it more difficult for other shareholders to hold the board accountable for decisions.Our most recent data indicates that insiders own less than 1% of AECOM. It is a very large company, so it would be surprising to see insiders own a large proportion of the company. Though their holding amounts to less than 1%, we can see that board members collectively own US$54m worth of shares (at current prices). Arguably recent buying and selling is just as important to consider. You can  click here to see if insiders have been buying or selling. General Public OwnershipThe general public-- including retail investors -- own 13% stake in the company, and hence can't easily be ignored. While this group can't necessarily call the shots, it can certainly have a real influence on how the company is run.Next Steps:It's always worth thinking about the different groups who own shares in a company. But to understand AECOM better, we need to consider many other factors. Consider for instance, the ever-present spectre of investment risk.   We've identified 3 warning signs  with AECOM , and understanding them should be part of your investment process.If you are like me, you may want to think about whether this company will grow or shrink. Luckily, you can check this free report showing analyst forecasts for its future.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team@simplywallst.comView comments