Read full articleSimply Wall St.With 83% ownership of the shares, Virtus Investment Partners, Inc. (NYSE:VRTS) is heavily dominated by institutional ownerseditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Fri, Jun 21, 2024, 5:04 AM5 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsGiven the large stake in the stock by institutions, Virtus Investment Partners' stock price might be vulnerable to their trading decisions50% of the business is held by the top 8 shareholders Recent sales by insiders If you want to know who really controls Virtus Investment Partners, Inc. (NYSE:VRTS), then you'll have to look at the makeup of its share registry. The group holding the most number of shares in the company, around 83% to be precise, is institutions. Put another way, the group faces the maximum upside potential (or downside risk).Given the vast amount of money and research capacities at their disposal, institutional ownership tends to carry a lot of weight, especially with individual investors. As a result, a sizeable amount of institutional money invested in a firm is generally viewed as a positive attribute.Let's delve deeper into each type of owner of Virtus Investment Partners, beginning with the chart below. See our latest analysis for Virtus Investment Partners ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Virtus Investment Partners?Institutions typically measure themselves against a benchmark when reporting to their own investors, so they often become more enthusiastic about a stock once it's included in a major index. We would expect most companies to have some institutions on the register, especially if they are growing.We can see that Virtus Investment Partners does have institutional investors; and they hold a good portion of the company's stock. This can indicate that the company has a certain degree of credibility in the investment community. However, it is best to be wary of relying on the supposed validation that comes with institutional investors. They too, get it wrong sometimes. When multiple institutions own a stock, there's always a risk that they are in a 'crowded trade'. When such a trade goes wrong, multiple parties may compete to sell stock fast. This risk is higher in a company without a history of growth. You can see Virtus Investment Partners' historic earnings and revenue below, but keep in mind there's always more to the story.earnings-and-revenue-growthSince institutional investors own more than half the issued stock, the board will likely have to pay attention to their preferences. Hedge funds don't have many shares in Virtus Investment Partners. Looking at our data, we can see that the largest shareholder is BlackRock, Inc. with 15% of shares outstanding. With 13% and 4.5% of the shares outstanding respectively, The Vanguard Group, Inc. and Dimensional Fund Advisors LP are the second and third largest shareholders. Additionally, the company's CEO George Aylward directly holds 3.7% of the total shares outstanding.Story continuesWe also observed that the top 8 shareholders account for more than half of the share register, with a few smaller shareholders to balance the interests of the larger ones to a certain extent.Researching institutional ownership is a good way to gauge and filter a stock's expected performance. The same can be achieved by studying analyst sentiments. There are plenty of analysts covering the stock, so it might be worth seeing what they are forecasting, too.Insider Ownership Of Virtus Investment PartnersWhile the precise definition of an insider can be subjective, almost everyone considers board members to be insiders. The company management answer to the board and the latter should represent the interests of shareholders. Notably, sometimes top-level managers are on the board themselves.Insider ownership is positive when it signals leadership are thinking like the true owners of the company. However, high insider ownership can also give immense power to a small group within the company. This can be negative in some circumstances.We can report that insiders do own shares in Virtus Investment Partners, Inc.. This is a big company, so it is good to see this level of alignment. Insiders own US$94m worth of shares (at current prices). It is good to see this level of investment by insiders. You can check here to see if those insiders have been buying recently. General Public OwnershipWith a 10% ownership, the general public, mostly comprising of individual investors, have some degree of sway over Virtus Investment Partners. This size of ownership, while considerable, may not be enough to change company policy if the decision is not in sync with other large shareholders.Next Steps:While it is well worth considering the different groups that own a company, there are other factors that are even more important. Consider for instance, the ever-present spectre of investment risk.   We've identified 1 warning sign  with Virtus Investment Partners , and understanding them should be part of your investment process.But ultimately  it is the future, not the past, that will determine how well the owners of this business will do. Therefore we think it advisable to take a look at this free report showing whether analysts are predicting a brighter future.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team@simplywallst.comView comments