Read full articleSimply Wall St.With 70% institutional ownership, ServisFirst Bancshares, Inc. (NYSE:SFBS) is a favorite amongst the big gunseditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Sun, Jun 2, 2024, 7:10 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsGiven the large stake in the stock by institutions, ServisFirst Bancshares' stock price might be vulnerable to their trading decisions52% of the business is held by the top 11 shareholders Analyst forecasts along with ownership data serve to give a strong idea about prospects for a businessA look at the shareholders of ServisFirst Bancshares, Inc. (NYSE:SFBS) can tell us which group is most powerful. The group holding the most number of shares in the company, around 70% to be precise, is institutions. In other words, the group stands to gain the most (or lose the most) from their investment into the company.Given the vast amount of money and research capacities at their disposal, institutional ownership tends to carry a lot of weight, especially with individual investors. As a result, a sizeable amount of institutional money invested in a firm is generally viewed as a positive attribute.Let's delve deeper into each type of owner of ServisFirst Bancshares, beginning with the chart below. Check out our latest analysis for ServisFirst Bancshares ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About ServisFirst Bancshares?Many institutions measure their performance against an index that approximates the local market. So they usually pay more attention to companies that are included in major indices.We can see that ServisFirst Bancshares does have institutional investors; and they hold a good portion of the company's stock. This suggests some credibility amongst professional investors. But we can't rely on that fact alone since institutions make bad investments sometimes, just like everyone does. If multiple institutions change their view on a stock at the same time, you could see the share price drop fast. It's therefore worth looking at ServisFirst Bancshares' earnings history below. Of course, the future is what really matters.earnings-and-revenue-growthSince institutional investors own more than half the issued stock, the board will likely have to pay attention to their preferences. Hedge funds don't have many shares in ServisFirst Bancshares. The company's largest shareholder is BlackRock, Inc., with ownership of 14%. The Vanguard Group, Inc. is the second largest shareholder owning 10% of common stock, and Kayne Anderson Rudnick Investment Management, LLC holds about 5.9% of the company stock. Furthermore, CEO Thomas Broughton is the owner of 2.4% of the company's shares.A closer look at our ownership figures suggests that the top 11 shareholders have a combined ownership of 52% implying that no single shareholder has a majority.Story continuesWhile it makes sense to study institutional ownership data for a company, it also makes sense to study analyst sentiments to know which way the wind is blowing. Quite a few analysts cover the stock, so you could look into forecast growth quite easily.Insider Ownership Of ServisFirst BancsharesThe definition of company insiders can be subjective and does vary between jurisdictions. Our data reflects individual insiders, capturing board members at the very least. Management ultimately answers to the board. However, it is not uncommon for managers to be executive board members, especially if they are a founder or the CEO.Most consider insider ownership a positive because it can indicate the board is well aligned with other shareholders. However, on some occasions too much power is concentrated within this group.Our most recent data indicates that insiders own some shares in ServisFirst Bancshares, Inc.. The insiders have a meaningful stake worth US$280m. Most would see this as a real positive. Most would say this shows alignment of interests between shareholders and the board. Still, it might be worth checking if those insiders have been selling. General Public OwnershipThe general public, who are usually individual investors, hold a 22% stake in ServisFirst Bancshares. While this group can't necessarily call the shots, it can certainly have a real influence on how the company is run.Next Steps:It's always worth thinking about the different groups who own shares in a company. But to understand ServisFirst Bancshares better, we need to consider many other factors.I like to dive deeper into how a company has performed in the past. You can find historic revenue and earnings in this detailed graph.If you are like me, you may want to think about whether this company will grow or shrink. Luckily, you can check this free report showing analyst forecasts for its future.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.View comments