More From ForbesJun 22, 2024,06:00pm EDTA Weakening Consumer And Other Signs Of Economic StressJun 21, 2024,03:13pm EDTStreet Earnings Understated For 29% Of S&P 500 In 1Q24Jun 21, 2024,10:34am EDTBeyond NVDA: Where Else Can You Profit Amid Market Rotation?Jun 21, 2024,08:45am EDTShould You Pick FedEx Stock At $250 Ahead Of Q4 Results?Jun 21, 2024,08:00am EDTHas The 737 MAX Clipped Boeing’s Wings? Is Airbus A Better Pick?Jun 21, 2024,07:48am EDTCan The AI Hype Deliver?Jun 21, 2024,07:15am EDTAmerican International Group Stock Is Up 9% YTD. What’s Next?Jun 21, 2024,06:30am EDTRoku Stock Can Rise To $70 As Cash Flows SurgeEdit StoryForbesMoneyMarketsCan A Stock Split Help Drive Nvidia To A $3 Trillion Market Cap?Trefis TeamContributorGreat SpeculationsContributor GroupOpinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.FollowingMay 24, 2024,06:00am EDTShare to FacebookShare to TwitterShare to LinkedinSignage with logo at the Silicon Valley headquarters of computer graphics hardware company Nvidia, ... [+] Santa Clara, California, August 17, 2017. (Photo via Smith Collection/Gado/Getty Images).Getty Images
Nvidia (NASDAQ: NVDA) posted a better-than-expected set of Q1 FY’25 results on Tuesday, amid a growing uptake for the company’s high-end GPUs for artificial intelligence applications. Revenues for Q1 more than tripled year-over-year to about $26 billion, while net profits were up over 7x to $14.9 billion. Nvidia stock jumped by almost 6% in after-market trading, touching the $1,000 mark for the first time as it announced that it would be splitting its stock 10-for-1, effective from June 7.


Nvidia’s Data Center segment - which primarily consists of the sales of accelerated computing chips for AI - came in at $22.6 billion, up 23% from Q4 FY’24 and up 427% from a year ago, while adjusted gross margins came in at a solid 78.9%, up from 67% in the year-ago quarter, driven by higher scale and software sales. The momentum is expected to hold up for Nvidia. Companies are looking to shift their sizable installed base of traditional data centers to accelerated computing to perform more artificial intelligence tasks. Moreover, while the initial AI models unveiled by the likes of OpenAI were largely text-based, models are increasingly multimodal, working with speech, images, video, and 3D calling for higher computing power and a larger number of GPU shipments. Nvidia’s accelerated computing chips remain meaningfully ahead of rivals such as AMD and Alphabet’s Tensor processing units in terms of performance at the moment. Moreover, the company has built an ecosystem around its AI tools, with its programming languages, and software, which are helping the company drive incremental sales and lock in customers. Nvidia’s outlook is also strong, with the company guiding for about $28 billion in revenue for Q2 FY’25, ahead of Street estimates and about 2x compared to the year-ago quarter. While the supply of Nvidia’s H100 chips is improving (estimated waiting time of just a few weeks, down from over a year previously), Nvidia says that demand for H200 and the new Blackwell architecture chips is well ahead of availability, with supply expected to lag demand well into the next year.

Now with the strong performance of Nvidia’s core business, the stock has posted extremely strong gains of 630% from levels of $130 in early January 2021 to around $950 now, vs. an increase of about 40% for the S&P 500 over this roughly 3-year period. However, the increase in NVDA stock has hardly been consistent. Returns for the stock were 125% in 2021, -50% in 2022, and 239% in 2023. In comparison, returns for the S&P 500 have been 27% in 2021, -19% in 2022, and 24% in 2023 - indicating that NVDA underperformed the S&P in 2022.


In fact, consistently beating the S&P 500 - in good times and bad - has been difficult over recent years for individual stocks; for other heavyweights in the Information Technology sector including MSFT, AAPL, and AVGO, and even for the mega-cap stars GOOG, TSLA, and AMZN. In contrast, the Trefis High Quality Portfolio, with a collection of 30 stocks, has outperformed the S&P 500 each year over the same period. Why is that? As a group, HQ Portfolio stocks provided better returns with less risk versus the benchmark index; less of a roller-coaster ride as evident in HQ Portfolio performance metrics. Given the current uncertain macroeconomic environment with high oil prices and elevated interest rates, could NVDA face a similar situation as it did in 2022 and underperform the S&P over the next 12 months - or will it see a strong jump?

The stock split announcement could result in some near-term gains for Nvidia stock. Although splits don’t change the fundamentals of a company, they often cause a run-up in the stock price post-announcement. These stocks also tend to outperform for two reasons. Firstly, they make stocks more accessible to smaller investors, driving up demand for the shares. Secondly, they indicate that management is confident about the company’s prospects and that growth could remain strong.
MORE FROMFORBES ADVISORBest Tax Software Of 2022Best Tax Software For The Self-Employed Of 2022Income Tax Calculator: Estimate Your Taxes
Looking at Nvidia’s current market price of about $1000 per share (based on after-hours trading), the stock now trades at about 40x consensus 2025 earnings and 31x 2026 earnings. Although this is not an unreasonable multiple, considering Nvidia’s heady growth, there are risks as well. Firstly, the big surge in GPU demand that we are currently seeing could potentially ease, as the initial training phase of AI large language models slows down. After the training of models, the phase of utilizing these models could shift toward lower-power requirements, or potentially even on-device capabilities, reducing demand growth for GPUs. Moreover, at the current valuation, the market might be pricing in that Nvidia will essentially own the AI chip market. However, this may not be the case. Players such as AMD are investing considerably to catch up in this space given the high stakes. Additionally, big tech players such as Google
Google
, Microsoft
Microsoft
, and Amazon
Amazon
 are also doubling down on developing their own AI and machine learning-related silicon. This could also pose a risk for Nvidia, as the big tech players remain the company’s largest customers. We value NVDA stock at $892 per share, about 10% below the current market price. See our analysis on Nvidia Valuation: Is NVDA Stock Expensive Or Cheap? for more details on what’s driving our price estimate for NVDA stock.
NVDA Return Compared with Trefis Reinforced Value PortfolioTrefis


Invest with Trefis Market Beating Portfolios
See all Trefis Price Estimates
Trefis TeamFollowingEditorial StandardsPrintReprints & PermissionsJoin The ConversationComments One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts. Read our community guidelines  here.Forbes Community GuidelinesOur community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space.In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil.Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain:False or intentionally out-of-context or misleading informationSpamInsults, profanity, incoherent, obscene or inflammatory language or threats of any kindAttacks on the identity of other commenters or the article's authorContent that otherwise violates our site's terms.User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in:Continuous attempts to re-post comments that have been previously moderated/rejectedRacist, sexist, homophobic or other discriminatory commentsAttempts or tactics that put the site security at riskActions that otherwise violate our site's terms.So, how can you be a power user?Stay on topic and share your insightsFeel free to be clear and thoughtful to get your point across‘Like’ or ‘Dislike’ to show your point of view.Protect your community.Use the report tool to alert us when someone breaks the rules.Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.