Read full articleSimply Wall St.Citigroup Inc. (NYSE:C) is a favorite amongst institutional investors who own 71%editorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Thu, Jun 13, 2024, 7:00 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsInstitutions' substantial holdings in Citigroup implies that they have significant influence over the company's share priceA total of 25 investors have a majority stake in the company with 45% ownershipOwnership research along with  analyst forecasts data  help provide a good understanding of opportunities in a stockIf you want to know who really controls Citigroup Inc. (NYSE:C), then you'll have to look at the makeup of its share registry. We can see that institutions own the lion's share in the company with 71% ownership. That is, the group stands to benefit the most if the stock rises (or lose the most if there is a downturn).Because institutional owners have a huge pool of resources and liquidity, their investing decisions tend to carry a great deal of weight, especially with individual investors. As a result, a sizeable amount of institutional money invested in a firm is generally viewed as a positive attribute.Let's delve deeper into each type of owner of Citigroup, beginning with the chart below. View our latest analysis for Citigroup ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Citigroup?Institutional investors commonly compare their own returns to the returns of a commonly followed index. So they generally do consider buying larger companies that are included in the relevant benchmark index.We can see that Citigroup does have institutional investors; and they hold a good portion of the company's stock. This suggests some credibility amongst professional investors. But we can't rely on that fact alone since institutions make bad investments sometimes, just like everyone does. If multiple institutions change their view on a stock at the same time, you could see the share price drop fast. It's therefore worth looking at Citigroup's earnings history below. Of course, the future is what really matters.earnings-and-revenue-growthInvestors should note that institutions actually own more than half the company, so they can collectively wield significant power. Hedge funds don't have many shares in Citigroup. The Vanguard Group, Inc. is currently the largest shareholder, with 8.7% of shares outstanding. For context, the second largest shareholder holds about 8.4% of the shares outstanding, followed by an ownership of 4.3% by the third-largest shareholder.Our studies suggest that the top 25 shareholders collectively control less than half of the company's shares, meaning that the company's shares are widely disseminated and there is no dominant shareholder.While studying institutional ownership for a company can add value to your research, it is also a good practice to research analyst recommendations to get a deeper understand of a stock's expected performance. There are plenty of analysts covering the stock, so it might be worth seeing what they are forecasting, too.Story continuesInsider Ownership Of CitigroupThe definition of company insiders can be subjective and does vary between jurisdictions. Our data reflects individual insiders, capturing board members at the very least. The company management answer to the board and the latter should represent the interests of shareholders. Notably, sometimes top-level managers are on the board themselves.Most consider insider ownership a positive because it can indicate the board is well aligned with other shareholders. However, on some occasions too much power is concentrated within this group.Our most recent data indicates that insiders own less than 1% of Citigroup Inc.. As it is a large company, we'd only expect insiders to own a small percentage of it. But it's worth noting that they own US$233m worth of shares. It is always good to see at least some insider ownership, but it might be worth checking if those insiders have been selling. General Public OwnershipThe general public-- including retail investors -- own 26% stake in the company, and hence can't easily be ignored. This size of ownership, while considerable, may not be enough to change company policy if the decision is not in sync with other large shareholders.Next Steps:It's always worth thinking about the different groups who own shares in a company. But to understand Citigroup better, we need to consider many other factors. Consider for instance, the ever-present spectre of investment risk.   We've identified 1 warning sign  with Citigroup , and understanding them should be part of your investment process.But ultimately  it is the future, not the past, that will determine how well the owners of this business will do. Therefore we think it advisable to take a look at this free report showing whether analysts are predicting a brighter future.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.View comments