Read full articleSimply Wall St.With 72% ownership, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (NYSE:GS) boasts of strong institutional backingeditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Mon, Jun 10, 2024, 7:00 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsGiven the large stake in the stock by institutions, Goldman Sachs Group's stock price might be vulnerable to their trading decisionsA total of 25 investors have a majority stake in the company with 46% ownership Insiders have sold recently If you want to know who really controls The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (NYSE:GS), then you'll have to look at the makeup of its share registry. With 72% stake, institutions possess the maximum shares in the company. Put another way, the group faces the maximum upside potential (or downside risk).Since institutional have access to huge amounts of capital, their market moves tend to receive a lot of scrutiny by retail or individual investors. Therefore, a good portion of institutional money invested in the company is usually a huge vote of confidence on its future.Let's take a closer look to see what the different types of shareholders can tell us about Goldman Sachs Group. See our latest analysis for Goldman Sachs Group ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Goldman Sachs Group?Institutions typically measure themselves against a benchmark when reporting to their own investors, so they often become more enthusiastic about a stock once it's included in a major index. We would expect most companies to have some institutions on the register, especially if they are growing.We can see that Goldman Sachs Group does have institutional investors; and they hold a good portion of the company's stock. This suggests some credibility amongst professional investors. But we can't rely on that fact alone since institutions make bad investments sometimes, just like everyone does. If multiple institutions change their view on a stock at the same time, you could see the share price drop fast. It's therefore worth looking at Goldman Sachs Group's earnings history below. Of course, the future is what really matters.earnings-and-revenue-growthInvestors should note that institutions actually own more than half the company, so they can collectively wield significant power. We note that hedge funds don't have a meaningful investment in Goldman Sachs Group. The company's largest shareholder is The Vanguard Group, Inc., with ownership of 8.4%. BlackRock, Inc. is the second largest shareholder owning 6.8% of common stock, and State Street Global Advisors, Inc. holds about 5.8% of the company stock.On studying our ownership data, we found that 25 of the top shareholders collectively own less than 50% of the share register, implying that no single individual has a majority interest.Story continuesWhile studying institutional ownership for a company can add value to your research, it is also a good practice to research analyst recommendations to get a deeper understand of a stock's expected performance. Quite a few analysts cover the stock, so you could look into forecast growth quite easily.Insider Ownership Of Goldman Sachs GroupThe definition of company insiders can be subjective and does vary between jurisdictions. Our data reflects individual insiders, capturing board members at the very least. The company management answer to the board and the latter should represent the interests of shareholders. Notably, sometimes top-level managers are on the board themselves.Insider ownership is positive when it signals leadership are thinking like the true owners of the company. However, high insider ownership can also give immense power to a small group within the company. This can be negative in some circumstances.Our data suggests that insiders own under 1% of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. in their own names. As it is a large company, we'd only expect insiders to own a small percentage of it. But it's worth noting that they own US$737m worth of shares. It is good to see board members owning shares, but it might be worth checking if those insiders have been buying. General Public OwnershipWith a 27% ownership, the general public, mostly comprising of individual investors, have some degree of sway over Goldman Sachs Group. While this group can't necessarily call the shots, it can certainly have a real influence on how the company is run.Next Steps:It's always worth thinking about the different groups who own shares in a company. But to understand Goldman Sachs Group better, we need to consider many other factors. Consider risks, for instance. Every company has them, and we've spotted   2 warning signs for Goldman Sachs Group   you should know about.Ultimately the future is most important. You can access this free report on analyst forecasts for the company.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.View comments