Read full articleSimply Wall St.With 67% institutional ownership, Intel Corporation (NASDAQ:INTC) is a favorite amongst the big gunseditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Mon, Jun 17, 2024, 4:02 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsGiven the large stake in the stock by institutions, Intel's stock price might be vulnerable to their trading decisionsThe top 25 shareholders own 43% of the company Recent purchases by insiders To get a sense of who is truly in control of Intel Corporation (NASDAQ:INTC), it is important to understand the ownership structure of the business. The group holding the most number of shares in the company, around 67% to be precise, is institutions. That is, the group stands to benefit the most if the stock rises (or lose the most if there is a downturn).Because institutional owners have a huge pool of resources and liquidity, their investing decisions tend to carry a great deal of weight, especially with individual investors. Hence, having a considerable amount of institutional money invested in a company is often regarded as a desirable trait.In the chart below, we zoom in on the different ownership groups of Intel. Check out our latest analysis for Intel ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Intel?Institutions typically measure themselves against a benchmark when reporting to their own investors, so they often become more enthusiastic about a stock once it's included in a major index. We would expect most companies to have some institutions on the register, especially if they are growing.As you can see, institutional investors have a fair amount of stake in Intel. This can indicate that the company has a certain degree of credibility in the investment community. However, it is best to be wary of relying on the supposed validation that comes with institutional investors. They too, get it wrong sometimes. If multiple institutions change their view on a stock at the same time, you could see the share price drop fast. It's therefore worth looking at Intel's earnings history below. Of course, the future is what really matters.earnings-and-revenue-growthInstitutional investors own over 50% of the company, so together than can probably strongly influence board decisions. Hedge funds don't have many shares in Intel. The company's largest shareholder is The Vanguard Group, Inc., with ownership of 9.1%. BlackRock, Inc. is the second largest shareholder owning 8.1% of common stock, and State Street Global Advisors, Inc. holds about 4.5% of the company stock.On studying our ownership data, we found that 25 of the top shareholders collectively own less than 50% of the share register, implying that no single individual has a majority interest.Researching institutional ownership is a good way to gauge and filter a stock's expected performance. The same can be achieved by studying analyst sentiments. Quite a few analysts cover the stock, so you could look into forecast growth quite easily.Story continuesInsider Ownership Of IntelThe definition of an insider can differ slightly between different countries, but members of the board of directors always count. The company management answer to the board and the latter should represent the interests of shareholders. Notably, sometimes top-level managers are on the board themselves.Most consider insider ownership a positive because it can indicate the board is well aligned with other shareholders. However, on some occasions too much power is concentrated within this group.Our data suggests that insiders own under 1% of Intel Corporation in their own names. As it is a large company, we'd only expect insiders to own a small percentage of it. But it's worth noting that they own US$70m worth of shares. In this sort of situation, it can be more interesting to  see if those insiders have been buying or selling. General Public OwnershipThe general public, who are usually individual investors, hold a 33% stake in Intel. While this group can't necessarily call the shots, it can certainly have a real influence on how the company is run.Next Steps:I find it very interesting to look at who exactly owns a company. But to truly gain insight, we need to consider other information, too. For instance, we've identified   2 warning signs for Intel  that you should be aware of.If you would prefer discover what analysts are predicting in terms of future growth, do not miss this free report on analyst forecasts.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team@simplywallst.comView comments