Read full articleSimply Wall St.While institutions invested in Infratil Limited (NZSE:IFT) benefited from last week's 3.9% gain, retail investors stood to gain the mosteditorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Wed, Jun 19, 2024, 12:08 PM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsSignificant control over Infratil by retail investors implies that the general public has more power to influence management and governance-related decisionsThe top 25 shareholders own 34% of the company Institutional ownership in Infratil is 28%Every investor in Infratil Limited (NZSE:IFT) should be aware of the most powerful shareholder groups. The group holding the most number of shares in the company, around 51% to be precise, is retail investors. In other words, the group stands to gain the most (or lose the most) from their investment into the company.Retail investors gained the most after market cap touched NZ$12b last week, while institutions who own 28% also benefitted.Let's delve deeper into each type of owner of Infratil, beginning with the chart below. View our latest analysis for Infratil ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Infratil?Institutions typically measure themselves against a benchmark when reporting to their own investors, so they often become more enthusiastic about a stock once it's included in a major index. We would expect most companies to have some institutions on the register, especially if they are growing.We can see that Infratil does have institutional investors; and they hold a good portion of the company's stock. This can indicate that the company has a certain degree of credibility in the investment community. However, it is best to be wary of relying on the supposed validation that comes with institutional investors. They too, get it wrong sometimes. If multiple institutions change their view on a stock at the same time, you could see the share price drop fast. It's therefore worth looking at Infratil's earnings history below. Of course, the future is what really matters.earnings-and-revenue-growthInfratil is not owned by hedge funds. Fisher Funds Management Limited is currently the company's largest shareholder with 3.9% of shares outstanding. With 3.7% and 3.6% of the shares outstanding respectively, JPMorgan Chase & Co, Private Banking and Investment Banking Investments and The Vanguard Group, Inc. are the second and third largest shareholders.Our studies suggest that the top 25 shareholders collectively control less than half of the company's shares, meaning that the company's shares are widely disseminated and there is no dominant shareholder.While studying institutional ownership for a company can add value to your research, it is also a good practice to research analyst recommendations to get a deeper understand of a stock's expected performance. There are a reasonable number of analysts covering the stock, so it might be useful to find out their aggregate view on the future.Story continuesInsider Ownership Of InfratilWhile the precise definition of an insider can be subjective, almost everyone considers board members to be insiders. The company management answer to the board and the latter should represent the interests of shareholders. Notably, sometimes top-level managers are on the board themselves.Insider ownership is positive when it signals leadership are thinking like the true owners of the company. However, high insider ownership can also give immense power to a small group within the company. This can be negative in some circumstances.We can report that insiders do own shares in Infratil Limited. The insiders have a meaningful stake worth NZ$202m. Most would see this as a real positive. Most would say this shows alignment of interests between shareholders and the board. Still, it might be worth checking if those insiders have been selling. General Public OwnershipThe general public, mostly comprising of individual investors, collectively holds 51% of Infratil shares. This level of ownership gives investors from the wider public some power to sway key policy decisions such as board composition, executive compensation, and the dividend payout ratio.Next Steps:I find it very interesting to look at who exactly owns a company. But to truly gain insight, we need to consider other information, too. Be aware that  Infratil is showing  3 warning signs in our investment analysis , and 2 of those shouldn't be ignored...If you would prefer discover what analysts are predicting in terms of future growth, do not miss this free report on analyst forecasts.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team@simplywallst.comView comments