Read full articleSimply Wall St.McDonald's Corporation (NYSE:MCD) is a favorite amongst institutional investors who own 72%editorial-team@simplywallst.com (Simply Wall St)Thu, Jun 20, 2024, 4:00 AM4 min readLink Copied0In this article:  Key InsightsInstitutions' substantial holdings in McDonald's implies that they have significant influence over the company's share price43% of the business is held by the top 25 shareholders Insiders have sold recently To get a sense of who is truly in control of McDonald's Corporation (NYSE:MCD), it is important to understand the ownership structure of the business. With 72% stake, institutions possess the maximum shares in the company. That is, the group stands to benefit the most if the stock rises (or lose the most if there is a downturn).Because institutional owners have a huge pool of resources and liquidity, their investing decisions tend to carry a great deal of weight, especially with individual investors. As a result, a sizeable amount of institutional money invested in a firm is generally viewed as a positive attribute.Let's take a closer look to see what the different types of shareholders can tell us about McDonald's. See our latest analysis for McDonald's ownership-breakdownWhat Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About McDonald's?Institutions typically measure themselves against a benchmark when reporting to their own investors, so they often become more enthusiastic about a stock once it's included in a major index. We would expect most companies to have some institutions on the register, especially if they are growing.As you can see, institutional investors have a fair amount of stake in McDonald's. This can indicate that the company has a certain degree of credibility in the investment community. However, it is best to be wary of relying on the supposed validation that comes with institutional investors. They too, get it wrong sometimes. If multiple institutions change their view on a stock at the same time, you could see the share price drop fast. It's therefore worth looking at McDonald's' earnings history below. Of course, the future is what really matters.earnings-and-revenue-growthSince institutional investors own more than half the issued stock, the board will likely have to pay attention to their preferences. McDonald's is not owned by hedge funds. Our data shows that The Vanguard Group, Inc. is the largest shareholder with 9.6% of shares outstanding. With 7.0% and 4.8% of the shares outstanding respectively, BlackRock, Inc. and State Street Global Advisors, Inc. are the second and third largest shareholders.Our studies suggest that the top 25 shareholders collectively control less than half of the company's shares, meaning that the company's shares are widely disseminated and there is no dominant shareholder.Story continuesResearching institutional ownership is a good way to gauge and filter a stock's expected performance. The same can be achieved by studying analyst sentiments. There are plenty of analysts covering the stock, so it might be worth seeing what they are forecasting, too.Insider Ownership Of McDonald'sThe definition of company insiders can be subjective and does vary between jurisdictions. Our data reflects individual insiders, capturing board members at the very least. Management ultimately answers to the board. However, it is not uncommon for managers to be executive board members, especially if they are a founder or the CEO.Insider ownership is positive when it signals leadership are thinking like the true owners of the company. However, high insider ownership can also give immense power to a small group within the company. This can be negative in some circumstances.Our most recent data indicates that insiders own less than 1% of McDonald's Corporation. Being so large, we would not expect insiders to own a large proportion of the stock. Collectively, they own US$383m of stock. It is good to see board members owning shares, but it might be worth checking if those insiders have been buying. General Public OwnershipThe general public, who are usually individual investors, hold a 28% stake in McDonald's. This size of ownership, while considerable, may not be enough to change company policy if the decision is not in sync with other large shareholders.Next Steps:I find it very interesting to look at who exactly owns a company. But to truly gain insight, we need to consider other information, too. Take risks for example - McDonald's has   2 warning signs   we think you should be aware of.But ultimately  it is the future, not the past, that will determine how well the owners of this business will do. Therefore we think it advisable to take a look at this free report showing whether analysts are predicting a brighter future.NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team@simplywallst.comView comments