




                                    AI
                                  
 
Startups taking on Nvidia face an uphill battle, but the dominant  AI chipmaker faces another real threat








Dan DeFrancesco 

                                  2024-06-07T14:21:21Z
                                 







Share icon
An curved arrow pointing right.

 Share





Facebook Icon
The letter F.


Facebook
 



Email icon
An envelope. It indicates the ability to send an email.


Email
 



Twitter icon
A stylized bird with an open mouth, tweeting.


Twitter
 



LinkedIn icon


LinkedIn
 



Link icon
An image of a chain link. It symobilizes a website link url.


Copy Link
 





lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.

 
Impact Link

 
 



Save Article Icon
A bookmark

 Save





 
                                      Read in app
                                  










                                  Chelsea Jia Feng/BI
                                



This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
                      subscribers.
                      Become an Insider
                      and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.






This post originally appeared in the Insider Today newsletter.You can sign up for Business Insider's daily newsletter here.










 


                                    Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview








 















Thanks for signing up!


                              Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go.
                              
                                download the app
                               





Email address





                                      Sign up
                                     



                                  By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. You can opt-out at any time by visiting our Preferences page or by clicking "unsubscribe" at the bottom of the email.
                              








 


Advertisement

Happy Friday! Yes, there are awards for funny photos of people's pets. And yes, they are hilarious.In today's big story, we're looking at the startups attempting to do the impossible: take on Nvidia.What's on deck:
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
                            subscribers.
                            Become an Insider
                            and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Markets: Meet the best young equity researchers in the game.Tech: Check out the top people leading Microsoft's new AI group.Business: How lifestyle creep can sneak up on high earners.
Advertisement

But first, you come at the king, you best not miss.If this was forwarded to you, sign up here.The big storyThe impossible fight






                          
                          HWA CHENG/AFP via Getty Images; Chelsea Jia Feng/BI
                          
                          

The house always wins in Las Vegas. But in Silicon Valley, it's Nvidia holding all the chips. Literally.Nvidia's dominant position as the AI chipmaker is undeniable, but that hasn't stopped some optimistic entrepreneurs from taking a shot at the crown. Business Insider's Alistair Barr has a rundown of the AI chip startups looking to challenge Nvidia.
Advertisement

For many experts in the space, it's a fool's errand. Put more bluntly, a VC told Alistair that betting against Nvidia is "a very stupid investment." OK, but tell me how you really feel.The pessimism for newcomers in the space isn't unwarranted, as they face plenty of headwinds.The AI chipmaking process requires lots of money — some startups have raised well north of $100 million — and time. That's a tough equation when the competition you're chasing is growing market share and making money hand-over-fist while its CEO is treated like a rock star.So why even bother?
Advertisement

A tiny fraction of a $3 trillion business — roughly Nvidia's market cap — is still a lot of money. So even if a startup can't go head-to-head with Nvidia, carving out a small portion of its market share isn't too shabby.






                          
                          Jessica Persson/AFP via Getty Images
                          
                          

The biggest threat to Nvidia isn't startups, though.When your stock looks like a vertical line, it gets people's attention. For Nvidia, that reportedly means regulators are taking a closer look.The Justice Department is preparing to investigate Nvidia's dominance and whether it violates antitrust laws, according to a recent report from The New York Times. That could enable upstarts to gain some ground.
Advertisement

As much as Silicon Valley loves to denounce regulation, it has, in a roundabout way, led to some innovation. Take the DOJ's antitrust case against Microsoft in the late '90s, a turning point for tech companies like Google and Apple.You'll be hard-pressed to find tech companies cheering on regulators, but they probably wouldn't mind Nvidia facing some competition. Some have already teamed up to break Nvidia's stranglehold on the market.Even if these AI chip startups eventually fail, they could still do the industry good. A little competition can keep those in front from getting too stagnant…or greedy.3 things in markets






                          
                          Goldman/Leerink/Jefferies; Chelsea Jia Feng/BI
                          
                          

They've got the research to back it up. BI identified 16 analysts ages 35 and under as part of its annual rising stars of equity research list. The group is known for providing reliable info and context to investors looking to suss out winners and losers in the market.Roaring Kitty is coming to you live. The king of meme stocks is scheduled to livestream on his YouTube channel at noon ET today. The announcement sent GameStop's stock soaring more than 40%.The real reason for copper's sky-high rally. It's not just supply and demand — the metal's massive bull run is likely due to expectations of interest-rate cuts, according to trading firm Trafigura. Prices swung to an all-time high last month, but the firm says copper's low inventory isn't new.3 things in tech






                          
                          Adobe Stock; iStock; Rebecca Zisser/BI
                          
                          

A new "dark age" could be on the horizon. One legal expert told BI artificial intelligence could usher in a period of societal decline if the industry isn't regulated. Don't believe them? Look how the largely unregulated social media turned out.Leaked org chart shows who's running Microsoft's new AI organization. We got a look at who's behind Mustafa Suleyman's new AI group. One interesting hire: Suleyman's ghostwriter.Tesla shareholders criticize Musk's latest move. Musk recently admitted that he delayed a shipment of Nvidia chips for Tesla. Now, shareholders are telling BI that decision is further proof he doesn't deserve his roughly $46 billion pay package, up for a vote on June 13.3 things in business






                                  Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella.
                                  
                          
                          
                          Drew Angerer/Getty Images; Chelsea Jia Feng;BI
                          
                          


Six of Satya Nadella's best tips for running a company. This year marks a decade with Nadella at Microsoft's helm. He has said listening in meetings, being decisive, and having empathy can help build a successful company.Lifestyle creep can cause HIFIs to spend "every cent they make." HIFIs — high-income, financially insecure people — tend to spend more than they earn, a financial planner says. She shared small spending changes that can boost HIFIs' future wealth.Why teachers are excited about AI. Big Tech is looking to get into education, and while some are worried, many educators are actually optimistic. One major reason: it can help them maximize their time.In other newsThe woman who says she's the real-life version of Martha on 'Baby Reindeer' just sued Netflix for $170 million.Goldman just released its annual report detailing pay equity, diversity goals, and more. Here are the most notable stats.He quit OpenAI, branding it reckless. He hopes outside pressure can now force change.Did Google fix its AI answers? Or did it just stop showing us AI answers?Europe's central bank cuts interest rates for first time in 5 years.Tesla can exist without Elon but the company needs him right now, board chair says.Hunter Biden may be doomed to lose his trial. His best bet is appealing a 'vindictive prosecution.'More young people are having strokes. A doctor shares 3 ways to help prevent them.Home prices are cooling nationwide. These 4 cities are leading the declines.Oracle engineer helps lead US to historic cricket win against Pakistan.
Advertisement

What's happening todayThe monthly employment report comes out today.Nvidia distribution date for its 10-for-1 stock split.Saudi Aramco is expected to announce the final pricing of its secondary public offering.The Insider Today team: Dan DeFrancesco, deputy editor and anchor, in New York. Jordan Parker Erb, editor, in New York. Jack Sommers, deputy editor, in London. George Glover, reporter, in London. Annie Smith, associate producer, in London.




 






Watch: An AI expert discusses the hardware and infrastructure needed to properly run and train AI models






Newsletters
Newsletter


Advertisement



 



 


Close icon
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
                    


 
