




                                    Economy
                                  
 
Modi's election surprise raises questions about India for USA Inc 








George Glover 

                                  2024-06-04T13:32:54Z
                                 







Share icon
An curved arrow pointing right.

 Share





Facebook Icon
The letter F.


Facebook
 



Email icon
An envelope. It indicates the ability to send an email.


Email
 



Twitter icon
A stylized bird with an open mouth, tweeting.


Twitter
 



LinkedIn icon


LinkedIn
 



Link icon
An image of a chain link. It symobilizes a website link url.


Copy Link
 





lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.

 
Impact Link

 
 



Save Article Icon
A bookmark

 Save





 
                                      Read in app
                                  












Angle down icon
An icon in the shape of an angle pointing down.

 

Narendra Modi and Joe Biden at the White House in June 2023.
 
                            Chen Mengtong/China News Service/VCG via Getty Images
                          





This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
                      subscribers.
                      Become an Insider
                      and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.






Narendra Modi's party won far fewer seats than expected in India's election.Modi's weakened position may make it tougher for his government to push through reforms.That could spook American firms that have warmed to the Prime Minister's pro-growth policies.










 


                                    Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview








 















Thanks for signing up!


                              Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go.
                              
                                download the app
                               





Email address





                                      Sign up
                                     



                                  By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. You can opt-out at any time by visiting our Preferences page or by clicking "unsubscribe" at the bottom of the email.
                              








 


Advertisement

Narendra Modi claimed victory in India's general election despite his BJP party winning far fewer seats than expected, meaning it will now have to seek coalition partners to form a government.The outcome sent Mumbai-listed stocks plummeting on Tuesday — and Modi's significantly weakened position could be a source of concern for American businesses, too.
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
                            subscribers.
                            Become an Insider
                            and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Modi's decade as Prime Minister has often been controversial, with his vision of building a "divine India" fueling a rise in Hindu nationalism that's threatened to marginalize other religious groups.But his pro-growth, pro-business policies have boosted growth and drawn in huge amounts of foreign investment — as well as winning the support of some of the loudest voices on Wall Street.
Advertisement

"Modi has done an unbelievable job in India," JPMorgan boss Jamie Dimon told the Economic Club of New York in April. "I know the liberal press here, they beat the hell out of him. He's taken 400 million people out of poverty."Elon Musk has also posted on X about his desire to visit India and meet with Modi. The pair are expected to discuss Tesla's plan to build a multibillion-dollar new factory in the world's most-populated country.


                                Related stories
                              


Meanwhile, Apple CEO Cook said on a November earnings call that India is an "incredibly exciting market" and a "major focus of ours" given the explosive growth in potential customers as locals get richer. Modi has also met with Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang, Microsoft boss Satya Nadella, and Alphabet's Sundar Pichai in recent years.Political stability"I think most investors have read the tea leaves and have realized that some of the political stability and predictable policies that they expect, that they desire when it comes to making investment decisions, is likely to be available in India," Rajesh Kumar Singh, a trade official for India, told Business Insider in January at the World Economic Forum in Davos.
Advertisement

"I think the trick for India is going to be political stability, going forward for a period of time — because I think a lot of the economic fundamentals are there," Andy Baldwin, a partner at EY, said at the same conference.But Modi's weakened position could erode that sense of stability and make it tougher for him to pass further pro-market reforms, analysts said on Tuesday.China hedge"The fear will be that if he has to rely on alliances with smaller parties, any market-friendly policies will be diluted," Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell, wrote in a research note."Some may now worry that India's lofty earnings rating leaves it exposed on the downside now that the political narrative may not be quite as clear cut as once thought," he added.
Advertisement

One appeal of India for the likes of Dimon, Musk, and Cook will likely have been Modi's firm grip on power, as USA Inc aims to hedge its bets on China given its strained relationship with the US and post-pandemic economic woes.The surprise election result could undermine that confidence.


 










                                            Related stories
                                          






                                            More from George Glover
                                          




Most popular




Watch: How Elon Musk makes and spends his billions








 




Economy
Finance
India

                        More...
                      


Advertisement



 



 


Close icon
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.
                    


 
