More From ForbesJun 21, 2024,07:30am EDTInvesting In Methane Mitigation To Seize The Climate Emergency BrakeJun 21, 2024,07:15am EDTHow To Maximize Your Next Tax Refund Through A Health Savings AccountJun 21, 2024,07:00am EDTBattling Financial Fraud In The Digital Age: Strategies For SuccessJun 20, 2024,07:15am EDTGenerative AI As A Service: An Emerging Frontier In Small Business BankingJun 20, 2024,07:00am EDTWhy Estate Planning Is Important Before And After You DieJun 18, 2024,07:45am EDTTax And Other Considerations: Commercial-To-Multifamily ConversionsJun 18, 2024,07:30am EDTWhat Running Can Teach You About LeadershipJun 18, 2024,07:15am EDTThe Role Of IP In Financing Green Or Sustainable TechnologiesEdit StoryForbesMoneyThree Reasons Fixed Index Annuities Are Better Than Bonds In Your Retirement PortfolioAaron CirksenaForbes Councils MemberForbes Finance CouncilCOUNCIL POSTExpertise from Forbes Councils members, operated under license. Opinions expressed are those of the author.| Membership (fee-based)May 28, 2024,07:45am EDTShare to FacebookShare to TwitterShare to LinkedinAaron Cirksena is the founder and CEO of MDRN Capital.
 getty

When financial advisors seek ways to manage risk in retirement investing, they typically look to bonds, which are traditionally seen as the optimal asset for offsetting the volatility in stock markets. By orchestrating a healthy mix of stocks and bonds in retirement accounts, advisors create a higher level of stability.

However, bonds aren’t always the best option for risk management when it comes to investing for retirement. Recent reports suggest investors should be wary about relying on bonds for stability, with one recent Bloomberg article revealing that the bond market has been “getting whipped by volatility” over the last few years.


For those looking to avoid losses triggered by the increase in bond volatility, fixed index annuities (FIAs) can provide a viable alternative. Overall, the features offered by FIAs position them as a lower investment risk than bonds, and FIAs typically not only have a lower cost but also a higher potential return on investment (ROI).

The Basics Of FIAs
Fixed index annuities are a contract between an investor and an insurance company that involves an accumulation phase and a distribution phase. Essentially, the investor pays premiums during accumulation to receive an income paid from the annuity during distribution.
MORE FROMFORBES ADVISORBest High-Yield Savings Accounts Of 2024ByKevin PayneContributorBest 5% Interest Savings Accounts of 2024ByCassidy HortonContributor
Like bonds, FIAs are an income-producing asset class. Unlike bonds, however, FIAs can guarantee investors an income for as long as they live. They are the only financial product that offers that type of security, making them a valuable tool for retirement planning.

FIA investors also earn interest on their principal up to a certain amount based on an external market index such as the S&P 500, allowing them to benefit from stock market gains without exposure to the risks associated with market volatility.


The following are the top three reasons FIAs can be better than bonds for retirement planning.
Reason 1: Higher Earning Potential
While bonds excel in terms of their stability, they struggle with earning potential—and recently, the term “struggle” hardly even begins to describe their shortcomings. The increase in interest rates in 2022 triggered a U.S. Treasury bond market crash that decreased the value of bonds by 13%, with some experts going so far as to describe 2022 as the “worst bond market in the last 100 years.”
Bond funds also haven’t shown encouraging returns in recent years. Since the beginning of 2019, the total return for the Vanguard Total bond fund—one of the largest bond funds in the world—has been just over 5%, meaning that a traditional 60/40 portfolio has had 40% of the assets averaging 1% a year for half a decade.
FIAs change the equation by giving investors access to a low-risk option that earns from stock index increases. The S&P index, as an example, has returned a historic annualized average return of approximately 10% between the time it was launched in 1957 and the end of 2023. Unlike most bond funds, FIAs have an earning potential that allows them to outpace inflation.
Reason 2: Lower Costs
To maximize the efficiency of one’s retirement planning, investors should minimize all costs, including management fees. Opting for bonds subjects investors to fees that typically range from 0.5% to 2%. FIAs, however, offer no-fee options.
To appreciate the difference a 1% fee can make, consider that $250,000 earning 7% over 20 years will grow to $967,421.12. Factor in the 1% fee and growth is limited to $801,783.87, but raise the fee to 2% and earnings fall to $721,034.70.
Advisory and other fees can be especially damaging to bond investing. Whereas stock investors look to make a 10% return, investing in bonds typically only returns 4% to 5%, meaning average investment costs can cut bond returns in half.
Reason 3: Full Principal Protection
Fixed index annuities take risk management to the next level by offering full principal protection, a feature that shields the annuities’ principal amount from market losses. Regardless of fluctuations in the stock market, the insurance company that issues the FIA is committed to returning at least the principal deposits at the end of the FIA contract term.
Overall, FIAs can provide a more efficient approach to managing risk that doesn’t cost investors earning potential. Advisors mix bonds into retirement portfolios to incorporate a “less risk, less potential” component that balances the “more risk, more potential” qualities stocks provide. As investors move toward retirement, however, the mix must regularly be rebalanced to address changing risk tolerance.
FIAs represent the best of both worlds by providing a “less risk, more potential” option that doesn’t need adjusting. They tap into stock market performance while also providing a safety net in the form of full principal protection, giving investors an option that can be better than bonds for balancing their retirement portfolio.
The information provided here is not investment, tax or financial advice. You should consult with a licensed professional for advice concerning your specific situation.
Forbes Finance Council is an invitation-only organization for executives in successful accounting, financial planning and wealth management firms. Do I qualify?
Follow me on LinkedIn. Check out my website. Aaron CirksenaEditorial StandardsPrintReprints & Permissions